arXiv:2505.15524v1 [cs.CL] 21 May 2025

Evaluate Bias without Manual Test Sets: A Concept
Representation Perspective for LLMs

Lang Gao12 Kaiyang Wan1 Wei Liu2 Chenxi Wang1 Zirui Song1
Zixiang Xu1 Yanbo Wang1 Veselin Stoyanov1 Xiuying Chen1∗
1
MBZUAI 2 Huazhong University of Science and Technology
{Lang.Gao, Xiuying.Chen}@mbzuai.ac.ae

Abstract
Bias in Large Language Models (LLMs) significantly undermines their reliability
and fairness. We focus on a common form of bias: when two reference concepts
in the model’s concept space, such as sentiment polarities (e.g., “positive” and
“negative”), are asymmetrically correlated with a third, target concept, such as a reviewing aspect, the model exhibits unintended bias. For instance, the understanding
of “food” should not skew toward any particular sentiment. Existing bias evaluation
methods assess behavioral differences of LLMs by constructing labeled data for
different social groups and measuring model responses across them, a process that
requires substantial human effort and captures only a limited set of social concepts.
To overcome these limitations, we propose B IAS L ENS , a test-set-free bias analysis
framework based on the structure of the model’s vector space. B IAS L ENS combines Concept Activation Vectors (CAVs) with Sparse Autoencoders (SAEs) to
extract interpretable concept representations, and quantifies bias by measuring the
variation in representational similarity between the target concept and each of the
reference concepts. Even without labeled data, B IAS L ENS shows strong agreement
with traditional bias evaluation metrics (Spearman correlation r > 0.85). Moreover,
B IAS L ENS reveals forms of bias that are difficult to detect using existing methods.
For example, in simulated clinical scenarios, a patient’s insurance status can cause
the LLM to produce biased diagnostic assessments. Overall, B IAS L ENS offers a
scalable, interpretable, and efficient paradigm for bias discovery, paving the way
for improving fairness and transparency in LLMs: Github.

1

Introduction

LLMs are central to modern NLP for their strong generalization and generation abilities, and are
increasingly applied in domains such as education [1] and healthcare [2]. However, they often inherit
and amplify social biases from training data, leading to fairness issues.
This work focuses on a common yet under-measured bias: when an LLM asymmetrically links
reference concepts (e.g., “female” and “male”) with an unrelated target (e.g., “doctor”), it reveals
biased associations [3, 4]. Existing bias evaluation frameworks like testing with StereoSet [5] and
WinoBias [6], SEAT [7], and more recently, BVF [8], and CLIMB [9] evaluate bias by comparing
model behavior across predefined concepts using curated datasets. For instance, they assess probability gaps between “male doctor” and “female doctor”. These methods are labor-intensive and rely on
domain-specific data, limiting their use in under-resourced scenarios (see Figure 1).
To overcome these limitations, we shift the focus from behavioral differences to conceptual representations, eliminating the reliance on manual test sets and enabling fully automatic evaluation. This
∗

Corresponding author.

Preprint. Under review.

How biased is Gemma 2 9B with respect on gender on the work type “doctor” ?
Traditional Bias Evaluation
Manual Test Set

Vector-Based Bias Evaluation
Synthetic Probe Data

How biased is Gemma 2 9B with respect on
health condition on “rich people” ?

Traditional Bias Evaluation
Manual Test Set

"Generate 150 sentences about..."
collect

annotate

Make annotated test set
male doctor sentences

man

group

woman

References

female doctor sentences

No suitable test set
/ hard to make test set

doctor

Target

Fail to Evaluate

Vector-Based Bias Evaluation
data

preds

data

preds

Test LLM on both groups

result analysis

Extract concept vectors

Prediction difference
as metric

Require Test Sets & Laborative

"Generate 150 sentences about..."

ill

healthy rich people

Similarity difference
as metric
Similarity difference

No Test Sets Required & Simple

Successful Evaluation

Figure 1: Comparison between traditional behavior-based and our representation-based bias evaluation paradigms. Our approach enables simple, test-set-free, concept-level analysis using activations
and synthetic data, even when no suitable test set exists.

approach is inspired by early work on bias analysis in static word embeddings (e.g., WORD 2 VEC),
where bias is typically detected by comparing vector similarities between words, for example, between “male” and “programmer” [10, 11]. However, in LLMs, biases are no longer confined to single
words. Their representations often span multiple tokens or cannot be expressed by words at all. As a
result, bias analysis in LLMs must move beyond tokens and focus on higher-level, abstract concepts.
Building on this idea, we propose B IAS L ENS , a bias evaluation framework for LLMs that requires
no manually constructed test sets. By measuring geometric alignment between concept vectors,
B IAS L ENS acts as a “lens” to uncover bias in the model’s internal concept space. As shown in
Figure 1, it operates without labeled test data and generalizes across diverse concepts. For each of a
target concept (e.g., doctor) and two references (e.g., male, female), following the Concept Activation
Vector (CAV) method [12, 13], we compute a direction in the activation space that represents the
transition from random representations to those that are concept-relevant. As CAVs are not inherently
interpretable [14], we enhance interpretability by extracting final-layer activations before and after
CAV steering, then projecting both into a high-dimensional sparse space via a pre-trained Sparse
Autoencoder (SAE) [15, 16]. Their normalized difference forms an interpretable concept shift vector.
We repeat this process for the target and reference concepts and compute cosine similarities between
their vectors. The absolute difference between the two similarity scores defines a directional bias,
capturing asymmetric alignment in the model’s representation space.
Our experiments demonstrate that B IAS L ENS aligns well with traditional behavior-based evaluations
in various LLMs, even without access to manual test samples. We also apply it to analyze LLMs
in both general and high-risk domains, uncovering previously unreported biases that align with
real-world expectations and partially corroborate findings from sociolinguistic studies.
In summary, our key contributions are as follows: we propose a novel bias formulation based on the
geometric alignment between intrinsic concept vectors, which removes the need for behavior-level
comparisons; we introduce B IAS L ENS , a test-free and concept-general framework that leverages
CAVs and SAEs to extract and compare intrinsic representations; and we provide empirical validation
across multiple LLMs and application domains, demonstrating that B IAS L ENS aligns well with
existing bias metrics while uncovering new, plausible biases with real-world implications.

2

Related Work

2.1

Bias in LLMs and Its Evaluation

Bias in LLMs. In sociology, bias is an irrational or unfair attitude toward a group, often rooted
in stereotypes or structural inequality [17, 18]. LLMs inherit and amplify such bias in systematic
2

ways [19, 20],such as stereotypical content [6, 21], value-laden comparisons [22, 23], and preferences [24, 25] during generation. For example, an LLM may associate certain professions with
specific genders or races [26, 3, 27]. Bias also affects practical tasks. In the LLM-as-a-judge setting,
models favor answers which are longer or include citation-style contents [28]. In high-stake domains,
the consequences are even severer. For example, in medicine, some LLMs provide inaccurate advice
when patient race is mentioned [29, 30, 31]; In finance, LLMs used for credit scoring can generate
unfavorable assessments for disadvantaged groups [32, 33]. We view these problems as arising from
unintended correlations between intrinsic concept representations, where concepts like gender and
occupation become entangled, and B IAS L ENS explicitly targets this type of representational bias.
Bias evaluation methods. Current bias evaluation methods for LLMs are commonly divided into
extrinsic and intrinsic behavior methods [20, 34]. While this terminology is widely adopted, the
distinction fundamentally reflects how these methods assess behavioral differences across contexts
or groups. Extrinsic methods examine output-level variations, such as changes in generated text or
classification accuracy across demographic groups. Representative examples include evaluating biases
using W INO B IAS [6] and S TEREO S ET [35]. Intrinsic methods focus on internal representations,
analyzing changes in token probabilities [36, 37] or embedding space geometry [38, 39] under
controlled conditions. Despite their differences, both types rely on grouped inputs and predefined
bias axes, and both ultimately assess how the model’s behavior, either extrinsically like accuracy, or
intrinsically like probabilities, responds to shifts in contextual variables. In contrast, early work on
static word embeddings sidestepped test sets entirely by directly measuring semantic geometry [40,
41]. Inspired by this, B IAS L ENS evaluates bias via directional alignment of intrinsic concept vectors,
requiring neither labeled data nor group-specific prompts.
2.2

Mechanistic Interpretability for LLMs

Concept Activation Vectors (CAVs). CAVs were first introduced by [12] as a tool for interpreting
neural representations. One can train a linear classifier that separates activations that contain a
concept from random activations. The classifier normal vectors are then defined as CAVs [12, 42].
Researchers obtain CAVs for LLMs by contrasting text with and without the target concept and
training on intermediate activations [43, 44]. For any user-defined concept or feature that can be
systematically manifested in a dataset, a corresponding CAV can be derived [12]. CAVs are widely
adopted for activation steering in LLMs [45, 46, 47], where adding or subtracting CAVs from
internal activations at inference time can guide model outputs toward or away from the associated
concept [46, 43, 13]. While much prior work emphasizes this steering effect, our interest lies in
their capacity to characterize internal concept representations and to serve as a probe into modelintrinsic properties. Despite their flexibility and expressive power, CAV directions are not inherently
interpretable [14], necessitating auxiliary tools to map them to semantically meaningful space.
Sparse Autoencoders (SAEs). An SAE is a non-linear, symmetric autoencoder that reconstructs
inputs through an overcomplete, sparsely activated latent layer [48]. When trained on the intermediate
activations of LLMs, SAEs decompose dense, polysemantic representations into sparse features
that activate for distinct, human-interpretable concepts [15, 49, 50, 51]. Such sparse units have
been used to analyze model behavior [15], identify causal features for prediction [52], and localize
intrinsic drivers of preference or reward [52]. Preliminary work uses SAE features to detect specific
biases [53, 54]. However, these methods rely on manually selecting a small subset of bias-related
features from the sparse representations produced by SAEs, which limits the coverage of bias types
and hinders systematic evaluation and cross-bias comparison. In contrast, B IAS L ENS extracts concept
vectors without requiring pre-interpreted features, enabling generalized bias analysis.

3

Method

3.1

Concept Representation-based Bias Formulation

Traditional bias evaluation often defines bias as behavioral differences exhibited by models under
different demographic contexts [55, 56], such as different accuracies, probability distributions, and
outputs. For example, a model may assign different prediction probabilities to the sentences “he
is a doctor” and “she is a doctor”. Such behavioral evaluations encompass a variety of indicators,
3

...
...

Layer

CAV

Prompt: I am talking about someone
who is a _

doctor

...

Activations

male

female

CAV-Based
Steering

...
Layer

Layer

Layer

Layer

Layer

Layer

CAVs
...
...

Write 150
sentences about
{doctor}

Concept : doctor

1. CAV Derivation

Pred: happy

SAE Encoder

Random data

SAE Encoder
Encoder
SAE

Layers

SAE-Based Extraction

Pred: doctor

2. Concept Representation Extraction

3. Bias Score Calculation

Figure 2: Overview of B IAS L ENS . A running example using the concept “doctor” illustrates the
three main steps of our method: (1) CAV derivation: train linear classifiers at each layer using random
and doctor-related sentences, and use the classifier weights as CAVs; (2) Concept representation
extraction: extract model activations before and after steering with “doctor” CAVs, project them into
SAE space, and subtract the normalized vectors to obtain the concept representation; (3) Bias score
calculation: repeat the process for “male” and “female,” and compute the asymmetry in similarity
between “doctor” and each of them.

including but not limited to perplexity, probability distribution shifts, or task-specific performance
metrics. Formally, given a target concept t and two reference contexts r1 and r2 , behavioral bias is
defined as the difference in model behaviors over sets of inputs constructed under these contexts:
Biasbehavioral (t; r1 , r2 ) = Ex∼Xr1 [f (x, t)] − Ex∼Xr2 [f (x, t)],

(1)

where Xr1 and Xr2 are collections of input sentences reflecting contexts r1 and r2 , and f (x, t) denotes
the model’s behavior related to concept t in input x.
While effective in specific scenarios, such behavior-level approaches are difficult to scale, and model
performance often heavily depends on the design of the test set X . To overcome these limitations, we
propose a concept representation-based definition of bias based on model features, which we term
conceptual correlation bias. Instead of relying on input-output behavior, this formulation directly
compares how a target concept aligns with different reference concepts in the model’s concept
representation space. Formally, given concept vectors t, r1 , and r2 , we define:

Biasconceptual (t; r1 , r2 ) = Diff Align(t, r1 ), Align(t, r2 ) ,
(2)
where Align(a, b) measures the alignment between two concepts (e.g., via cosine similarity), and
Diff(x, y) quantifies the degree of asymmetry. This definition enables bias evaluation that is dataindependent, domain-general, and applicable to a wide range of semantic relationships.
3.2

B IAS L ENS Framework

B IAS L ENS is constructed based on our formulation of bias. Unlike prior methods, it bypasses
behavioral observations and therefore requires no manually constructed test data. Given a potential
bias, we identify a target concept and a pair of reference concepts. B IAS L ENS then computes the
alignment difference between their representations. As illustrated in Figure 2, B IAS L ENS consists of
three steps: CAV derivation, concept representation extraction, and bias score calculation.
3.2.1

CAV Derivation

Following [12], we define the CAV as a linear decision boundary that separates activations corresponding to a target concept from those corresponding to unrelated content. To compute the CAV,
we first construct a probing dataset consisting of two balanced sets of sentences: positive examples
4

containing the target concept are generated by GPT-4o [57], while negative examples are sampled
from the random corpus OpenWebText[58]. Details on the prompt are in AppendixB.1 and B.2.
We feed each sentence into the target LLM and extract the embedding of the last token at each layer l,
denoted as the activation vector ak . Following prior work [59, 60], we use the last token embedding
as the activation since it is understood to capture how the LLM interprets the semantic meaning
of the entire sentence. Each activation ak is associated with a binary label yk ∈ {0, 1}, where the
positive class indicates that the sentence contains the target concept, and the negative class indicates
otherwise. We then train a logistic regression classifier to predict yk from a
k by minimizing the
PN
1
(l)⊤
(l)
average cross-entropy loss: minw(l) , b(l) N k=1 LCE yk , σ w ak + b
, where σ(·) is the
sigmoid function. Details are shown in Appendix B.3.
(l)

w
Finally, we define the CAV for layer l as the normalized weight vector: v (l) = ∥w
(l) ∥ . This vector

v (l) points from representations of general language towards the representation of the target concept.
3.2.2

Concept Representation Extraction

Algorithm 1 Concept Steering Across Layers

After obtaining the CAVs, we steer the model Require: LLM, input x, CAVs {v (l) }, classialong the directions v (l) to inject the concept,
fiers {f (l) }, threshold τ , step size δ
and use an SAE to construct a concept represen- 1: a(1) ← LLM.Layer1 (x)
tation that is both structured and interpretable. 2: for l = 1 to n do
This process consists of two steps: CAV-based 3:
while f (l) (a(l) ) < τ do
steering and SAE-based extraction.
4:
a(l) ← a(l) + δ · v (l)
5:
end while
CAV-based steering. As shown in Figure 2, 6:
a(l+1) ← LLM.Layerl+1 (a(l) )
once the CAV is obtained, we only need a sin- 7: end for
gle sentence to perform concept representation 8: return a(n)
extraction, from which the final bias score can
be computed. Considering that the same concept may exhibit different biases across contexts, we
design prompts that clearly specify the intended scenario and naturally introduce both the target and
reference concepts. For example, to study gender bias associated with the occupation “doctor”, we
use prompts such as “This is a description of the person” in general settings, and “This is a description
of the movie character” in movie review contexts. Full prompt examples under different scenarios in
this paper are provided at Table 5 in Appendix B.4.
To maximize the effect of concept injection, we apply steering at every layer. For each layer l, we
iteratively shift the activation vector a(l) in the direction of the CAV v (l) for a step δ = 1, increasing
the probability of predicting the target concept. This process continues until the prediction confidence
exceeds a threshold of τ = 0.999. The process is formalized in Algorithm 1.
SAE-based extraction. Since the CAV steering direction is not inherently interpretable, we resort to
SAE [15], a commonly used tool for disentangling and interpreting internal representations, to project
the CAV onto semantically meaningful activation subspaces. We denote the model before steering as
LLMori , and the concept-steered model as LLMsteer . We extract the final-layer activations from both
LLMori and LLMsteer , and denote them as aori and asteer . These activations are then projected into a
high-dimensional, sparse semantic space using an SAE.
An SAE is a symmetric linear network consisting of an encoder and a decoder [61, 15]. The encoder
maps the input to a sparse code via a linear transformation followed by an activation function ϕ(·) :
z = E(a) = ϕ(WSAE · a + bSAE ),
(3)
where WSAE ∈ Rk×d , k ≫ d. This projection is generally believed to reveal a set of interpretable
and readable concepts, such as the concept “doctor”. The decoder reconstructs the original activation
from the sparse code, ensuring that the learned features retain the semantic information of the input.
Here we only utilize the encoder E(·). Let zori = E(aori ) and zsteer = E(asteer ) be the corresponding
sparse representations. Each dimension in z is designed to reflect an independent semantic concept.
Since CAV steering targets only the injected concept, changes between zori and zsteer should mainly
occur in concept-relevant dimensions. Therefore, we normalize both vectors and compute their
⃗ = Norm(zsteer ) − Norm(zori ), and interpret the resulting vector C
⃗ as the concept
difference as C
representation vector. It highlights dimensions most affected by the concept injection.
5

100

SAE features

(prompt) This is a comment
about an experience at a theater:
(response) The theater was cozy
and inviting…ensuring that our
drinks were always full and our
plates were promptly refilled.The
menu offered …

food-related:
14.74%

80
60

AUC=0.4457

AUC=0
0

concept=“food”

AUC=0.7825

40

unrelated:
100%

AUC=0.7982

food-related features (%)

(response) I was at a theater in the
city of New York, and I was sitting
in the front row. I was sitting in the
front row because I wanted ...

food-related:
0%

20

(prompt) This is a comment
about an experience at a theater:

unrelated:
85.26%

0

20

40

60

80

100

feature rankings(top%)
original

SAE features

(a) CAV-based Steering Effects

steered

differences

normalized differences

(b) SAE-based Extraction Effects

Figure 3: Validation of concept representation extraction. (a) CAV-based steering activates relevant
features, which can be captured by the SAE. (b) Normalizing and differencing the SAE representations
improve the ranking of concept-relevant features, ensuring the extracted direction is generally
controlled by the dimensions of these features.
3.2.3

Bias Score Calculation

In §3.1, we define bias as the difference in alignment between a target concept and a pair of reference
concepts. We expect that strongly coupled concepts should have similar concept representations.
This implies that their concept vectors should point in similar directions, forming small angles in
space. In contrast, loosely related or independent concepts should produce larger angles. Following
this intuition, we quantify bias as the difference in alignment between a target concept and a set of
⃗ target be the target concept’s representation vector, and C
⃗ ref1 , C
⃗ ref2 be two
reference concepts. Let C
reference concepts’ representation vectors, we compute the bias score as:
⃗ target , C
⃗ ref1 ) − cos ∠(C
⃗ target , C
⃗ ref2 ) .
Sbias (target) = cos ∠(C

(4)

This score captures how unequally the target concept aligns with the reference set. Larger values
indicate stronger bias.
3.3

Effectiveness of Concept Representation Extraction in B IAS L ENS

Concept representation extraction is a key step in our method, as the resulting vector is directly used
for similarity-based bias scoring. To illustrate how each component contributes, we analyze two main
stages: CAV-based steering and SAE-based extraction. This analysis is based on a single case study.
We use Gemma 2 2B and construct a CAV for the concept “food” following §3.2.1. We also utilize
the SAE for the last layer, whose configuration details in Appendix C.1. The input prompt is “This is
a comment about an experience at a theater:”.
CAV-Based Steering Effects Can be Interpreted by SAE. We interpret activated sparse features
using Neuronpedia [62], a repository of natural language descriptions for SAE dimensions. Features
with positive activation are classified as food-related or unrelated by GPT-4o-Mini (Appendix B.5).
Figure 3(a) shows the results. Without steering, the model generates no food-related content, and
100% of activated features are unrelated to food. After steering, the output includes food-related
descriptions, and 14.74% of the activated features are labeled as food-related. This suggests that
steering shifts the model’s understanding towards the input in a semantically meaningful way, which
is detectable through the SAE.
We further show in Appendix B.6 that even when the output remains unchanged, steering still
increases the number of food-related activations in the SAE space. This indicates that the steering
effect is consistently captured at the representation level, even if not always reflected in generation.
SAE-Based Extraction Amplifies Concept-Relevant Dimensions. The extracted concept vector is
directly used for similarity computation, where more salient features have a stronger influence on
the score. To progressively increase the salience of features related to the target concept, we apply
6

Table 1: Comparison between extrinsic and intrinsic bias metrics across models. Values represent
Spearman correlation with B IAS L ENS . Our metric shows positive correlations with most baseline
metrics. For each category, the metric with the highest correlation is bolded.

Extrinsic Metrics

Model
Gemma 2 2B
Gemma 2 9B
Llama 3.1 8B

Intrinsic Metrics

|F1-Diff|

EOD

I.F.

G.F.

SEAT

Perplexity

0.9429
0.9429
0.7143

0.1429
0.8857
-0.9429

0.4286
0.7714
-0.7143

0.2571
0.7714
1.0000

0.7893
0.7276
0.4234

0.4897
0.3083
0.1531

three successive operations before forming the final concept representation: (1) extract SAE-encoded
activations before and after CAV steering; (2) apply normalization to both; and (3) compute the
difference between the two normalized vectors.
To examine their effects, we evaluate four variants of the SAE encoding: (i) original zori , (ii) steered
zsteer , (iii) differences zsteer − zori , and (iv) normalized differences Norm(zsteer ) − Norm(zori ). For
each variant, we sort all features by descending value and compute a cumulative distribution over the
concept-relevant dimensions, based on Neuronpedia annotations. Figure 3(b) shows the resulting
cumulative distribution curves. We further quantify feature salience using the area under each curve
(AUC). Higher AUC values indicate stronger prominence of concept-relevant features in the ranking.
The AUC increases from 0.4457 for the steered encoding, to 0.7825 after subtraction, and reaches
0.7982 after normalization and subtraction. These results show that our extraction process effectively
amplifies the semantic signal of the target concept.
We also provide a discussion on the robustness of B IAS L ENS to probing data in Appendix B.7.

4

Experiments

4.1

Experimental Setup

We evaluate B IAS L ENS on three pretrained LLMs of diverse architectures and sizes: Gemma 2
2B [63], Gemma 2 9B, and Llama 3.1 8B [64]. Full models and SAE settings are available in
Appendix C.1. We compare B IAS L ENS with six existing metrics, referred to as either extrinsic
behavioral metrics or intrinsic behavioral metrics, following the taxonomy in §2.1 and to emphasize
their contrast with B IAS L ENS . The extrinsic behavior metrics are computed from classification
outputs on sentiment classification datasets, while intrinsic methods focus on internal representations,
analyzing changes in token probabilities.
Extrinsic behavioral metrics. We compare B IAS L ENS with four widely-used extrinsic behavioral
metrics: |F1-Diff| [6], Equal Opportunity Difference (EOD) [65, 66], Individual Fairness (I.F.) [67,
68], and Group Fairness (G.F.) [67, 68]. The implementation details of these methods are available
in Appendix C.2.1. These metrics are computed on model outputs over Yelp [69] and IMDB [70]
datasets, using sentiment classification as the downstream task. Following [71], we annotate each
sample with one of six concepts (e.g. food, service, etc) as target concepts, and treat sentiment
polarities as reference concepts, as detailed in Appendix C.3.1. We then compute bias metrics
separately for each concept. For instance, suppose we classify Yelp reviews that mention “food” versus
those that do not. |F1-Diff| quantifies whether the model performs better sentiment classification on
one group than the other; EOD examines whether samples with positive emotion from both groups are
equally likely to be correctly classified; I.F. measures how sensitive the model’s prediction is when the
sentiment context (e.g., “delicious” vs. “bland”) is changed within the same structural template; and
G.F. evaluates whether the overall sentiment prediction distributions differ systematically between
the two groups. Together, these metrics reflect different aspects of behavioral bias.
7

|F1-Diff| EOD

I.F.
(a)

G.F.

Ours

|F1-Diff| EOD

I.F.
(b)

G.F.

Ours

EOD |F1-Diff|
I.F.

0.94 0.89 0.77 0.77 1.00

-0.60 1.00 0.77 -0.94 -0.94
-0.83 0.77 1.00 -0.71 -0.71

G.F.

0.71 0.60 1.00 1.00 0.77

0.94 1.00 0.60 0.60 0.89

0.71 -0.94 -0.71 1.00 1.00

Ours

EOD |F1-Diff|

Ours

0.94 0.14 0.43 0.26 1.00

I.F.

G.F.

0.14 0.66 0.60 1.00 0.26

0.71 0.60 1.00 1.00 0.77

G.F.

I.F.

0.26 0.60 1.00 0.60 0.43

1.00 0.94 0.71 0.71 0.94

Ours

EOD |F1-Diff|

-0.03 1.00 0.60 0.66 0.14

1.00 -0.03 0.26 0.14 0.94

0.71 -0.94 -0.71 1.00 1.00

1.00 -0.60 -0.83 0.71 0.71

|F1-Diff| EOD

I.F.
(c)

G.F.

Ours

1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00

Figure 4: Spearman correlation matrices between B IAS L ENS and four extrinsic behavioral metrics on
(a) Gemma 2 2B, (b) Gemma 2 9B, and (c) Llama 3.1 8B. Each matrix shows pairwise correlations
computed over 6 target concepts.

Intrinsic behavioral metrics. We compare B IAS L ENS with two intrinsic behavior tests: SEAT [7]
and the Perplexity Test [72], both applied to the WinoBias dataset [6]. These tests use occupationrelated prompts (e.g., “He is a doctor” vs. “She is a doctor”) to evaluate gender bias, where
occupation is the target concept and gender the reference. SEAT measures differences in cosine
similarity between target and attribute sentences. We use gendered occupation sentences as targets
and construct attribute sets based on template-filled occupations, following [7]. The reported metric
is the effect size. Perplexity Test measures asymmetry in language modeling behavior by comparing
conditional perplexities of gendered prompt pairs. Each pair differs only in pronoun and occupation
reference. A two-sample t-test is applied to the resulting perplexity values, and we use the t-value as
the bias score. Only statistically significant comparisons (p ≤ 0.05) are retained. The implementation
details of the tests are available in Appendix C.2.2. Dataset construction details are in Appendix C.3.2.
4.2

Consistency with Established Bias Measures

Consistency with extrinsic behavioral metrics. Figure 4 and Table 1 together show that B I AS L ENS exhibits strong and consistent agreement with established bias metrics across different
models and concept types. 1) B IAS L ENS exhibits positive correlations with all extrinsic behavioral
metrics on Gemma 2 2B and Gemma 2 9B. In table 1, correlations of B IAS L ENS with |F1-Diff| reach
0.9429 on both Gemma 2 2B and 9B, alongside moderate positive correlations with I.F. (0.4286 and
0.7714) and G.F. (0.2571 and 0.7714). 2) B IAS L ENS consistently achieves the highest correlation
with |F1-Diff| across all models. |F1-Diff| is a widely-used output-level bias measure. Its consistently
strong correlation with B IAS L ENS , especially for both Gemma models, whose correlations are close
to 1 in Table 1, supporting the validity of B IAS L ENS as a behavioral bias proxy. Even on Llama
3.1 8B, where metric disagreements are more pronounced (right panel of Figure 4), the correlation
remains relatively strong at 0.7143. 3) B IAS L ENS often surpasses |F1-Diff| in aligning with other
metrics. Figure 4(a) shows that B IAS L ENS correlates with EOD at 0.43 on Gemma 2 2B, compared
to only 0.26 for |F1-Diff|. On Gemma 2 9B (Figure 4b), B IAS L ENS achieves 0.60 with EOD and 0.77
with both I.F. and G.F., again matching or outperforming |F1-Diff|. On Llama 3.1 8B (Figure 4c),
B IAS L ENS improves the correlation with G.F. from 0.71 (|F1-Diff|) to 1.0. Meanwhile, |F1-Diff|
shows strong negative correlations with other metrics like EOD (−0.6) and I.F.(−0.83), suggesting
its sensitivity to task-specific signals. In contrast, B IAS L ENS yields more moderate correlations,
such as −0.71 with I.F., reducing the gap by −0.12. This indicates that B IAS L ENS balances diverse
fairness signals instead of replicating one specific metric.
Consistency with intrinsic behavior metrics. For each baseline, we select occupations with
statistically significant bias (p ≤ 0.05), and compute the correlation between B IAS L ENS and the
corresponding bias strength metric (i.e., SEAT’s effect size or perplexity t-value); results are shown
in the right half of Table 1. B IAS L ENS achieves strong correlation with SEAT across all models (e.g.,
0.79 on Gemma 2 2B, 0.73 on Gemma 2 9B), reinforcing its validity as an association-aware measure.
While correlations with perplexity t-value are lower (e.g., 0.49 on Gemma 2 2B), they remain positive
and stable across models. This suggests that B IAS L ENS captures consistent bias signals even when
behavioral and representational patterns differ, offering a robust alternative.
8

Table 3: Bias scores between reference and target concepts in medical domains, computed using
B IAS L ENS on Gemma 2 2B. For each target concept, the highest bias score across all reference
concept pairs is highlighted in mid blue and the second highest in light blue .
Target Concepts
vs. Reference Concepts

illness

pain

cancer

surgery

mental
illness

male vs female
rich vs poor
white vs black
public insurance vs private
native vs non-native

0.1008
0.0787
0.0124
0.0783
0.0039

0.1174
0.0634
0.0008
0.0681
0.0478

0.0588
0.0145
0.0132
0.0861
0.0360

0.0846
0.0471
0.0301
0.1134
0.0319

0.0823
0.0862
0.0321
0.0438
0.0077

All bias scores used in this analysis are reported in Appendix D, with extrinsic metric results shown
in Table 10 and intrinsic metric results in Table 11 ∼ Table 13.
4.3

Discovering New Forms of Bias with B IAS L ENS

To demonstrate the extensibility and practical utility of B IAS L ENS , we apply it to a set of underexplored but socially relevant bias types. Building on prior studies [73, 74], we focus on the medical
and educational domains—two areas where model predictions may have real-world consequences,
yet concept-level evaluations remain lacking. While existing work has preliminarily examined bias
in these domains [75], to the best of our knowledge, no prior effort has constructed concept-level
assessments that reveal associations between specific reference groups and domain-specific concepts.
In the medical domain, target concepts correspond to illness-related categories (e.g., “cancer”, “mental
illness”), while reference concepts span demographic contrasts such as gender, race, income, and
insurance status. As shown in Table 3, we observe prominent gender- and income-related biases in
how the model associates concepts like illness and surgery with demographic groups. These trends
align with sociological findings [76, 77], where perceptions of chronic or mental health issues often
vary across populations. For instance, the model exhibits greater alignment between “insured patients”
and “surgery,” suggesting biased clinical assumptions.
Results in the education domain, as well as findings on other models, are presented in Appendix E.
4.4

Automation and Efficiency

B IAS L ENS is both labor-free and highly efficient. Manual methods for bias evaluation are costly.
For example, building the 12,000-example R EDDIT B IAS [72] dataset required three annotators with
university degrees and one PhD student, each labeling around 4,000 samples—incurring substantial
annotation, recruitment, and training costs. In contrast, B IAS L ENS requires only the definition of
target concepts and a few prompt templates. All other steps are fully automated. This design also
brings major efficiency gains. Manual baselines take 1,000–2,000 minutes to annotate (assuming 1
minute per example) and 1,000–2,000 seconds for inference (at 1 input per second). B IAS L ENS generates 450 short prompts (under 10 tokens) in 450 seconds. CAV training takes no more than 15
seconds, and classifier training and evaluation take under 30 seconds. Overall, B IAS L ENS achieves
approximately a 50× speedup in both dataset construction and testing.

5

Conclusion

This work introduces B IAS L ENS , a test-set-free framework for evaluating bias in LLMs. By redefining bias as asymmetric alignment between a target concept and a reference pair, we extract
sparse, interpretable concept vectors and measure their similarity differences to quantify bias. B I AS L ENS eliminates the need for curated test sets and supports flexible, context-aware analysis across
domains. Experiments show that B IAS L ENS maintains high consistency with both extrinsic behavioral and intrinsic behavioral bias metrics, while alleviating conflicts among them. Moreover,
9

B IAS L ENS enables the discovery of underexplored and subtle bias patterns in real-world settings. This
highlights its potential as a practical, extensible tool aligned with the goals of usable XAI—leveraging
interpretability not only for explanation, but also for building robust, systematic evaluation systems.

References
[1] Iain Weissburg, Sathvika Anand, Sharon Levy, and Haewon Jeong. Llms are biased teachers: Evaluating
llm bias in personalized education. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.14012, 2024.
[2] Mahmud Omar, Shelly Soffer, Reem Agbareia, Nicola Luigi Bragazzi, Donald U Apakama, Carol R
Horowitz, Alexander W Charney, Robert Freeman, Benjamin Kummer, Benjamin S Glicksberg, et al.
Sociodemographic biases in medical decision making by large language models. Nature Medicine, pages
1–9, 2025.
[3] Hadas Kotek, Rikker Dockum, and David Sun. Gender bias and stereotypes in large language models. In
Proceedings of the ACM collective intelligence conference, pages 12–24, 2023.
[4] Hannah Rose Kirk, Yennie Jun, Filippo Volpin, Haider Iqbal, Elias Benussi, Frederic Dreyer, Aleksandar
Shtedritski, and Yuki Asano. Bias out-of-the-box: An empirical analysis of intersectional occupational
biases in popular generative language models. Advances in neural information processing systems,
34:2611–2624, 2021.
[5] Moin Nadeem, Anna Bethke, and Siva Reddy. Stereoset: Measuring stereotypical bias in pretrained
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.09456, 2020.
[6] Jieyu Zhao, Tianlu Wang, Mark Yatskar, Vicente Ordonez, and Kai-Wei Chang. Gender bias in coreference
resolution: Evaluation and debiasing methods. In Marilyn Walker, Heng Ji, and Amanda Stent, editors,
Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers), pages 15–20, New Orleans,
Louisiana, June 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[7] Chandler May, Alex Wang, Shikha Bordia, Samuel R. Bowman, and Rachel Rudinger. On measuring social
biases in sentence encoders. In Jill Burstein, Christy Doran, and Thamar Solorio, editors, Proceedings of the
2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages 622–628, Minneapolis, Minnesota, June
2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[8] Yiran Liu, Ke Yang, Zehan Qi, Xiao Liu, Yang Yu, and ChengXiang Zhai. Bias and volatility: A statistical
framework for evaluating large language model's stereotypes and the associated generation inconsistency.
In A. Globerson, L. Mackey, D. Belgrave, A. Fan, U. Paquet, J. Tomczak, and C. Zhang, editors, Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 37, pages 110131–110155. Curran Associates, Inc.,
2024.
[9] Yubo Zhang, Shudi Hou, Mingyu Derek Ma, Wei Wang, Muhao Chen, and Jieyu Zhao. Climb: A
benchmark of clinical bias in large language models, 2024.
[10] Hossein Azarpanah and Mohsen Farhadloo. Measuring biases of word embeddings: What similarity
measures and descriptive statistics to use? In Yada Pruksachatkun, Anil Ramakrishna, Kai-Wei Chang,
Satyapriya Krishna, Jwala Dhamala, Tanaya Guha, and Xiang Ren, editors, Proceedings of the First
Workshop on Trustworthy Natural Language Processing, pages 8–14, Online, June 2021. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
[11] Sunipa Dev, Tao Li, Jeff M Phillips, and Vivek Srikumar. On measuring and mitigating biased inferences
of word embeddings. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, volume 34, pages
7659–7666, 2020.
[12] Been Kim, Martin Wattenberg, Justin Gilmer, Carrie J. Cai, James Wexler, Fernanda B. Viégas, and Rory
Sayres. Interpretability beyond feature attribution: Quantitative testing with concept activation vectors
(tcav). In Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, 2018.
[13] Hanyu Zhang, Xiting Wang, Chengao Li, Xiang Ao, and Qing He. Controlling large language models
through concept activation vectors. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.05764, 2025.
[14] Harry Mayne, Yushi Yang, and Adam Mahdi. Can sparse autoencoders be used to decompose and interpret
steering vectors? CoRR, abs/2411.08790, 2024.

10

[15] Robert Huben, Hoagy Cunningham, Logan Riggs Smith, Aidan Ewart, and Lee Sharkey. Sparse autoencoders find highly interpretable features in language models. In The Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2024.
[16] Leo Gao, Tom Dupre la Tour, Henk Tillman, Gabriel Goh, Rajan Troll, Alec Radford, Ilya Sutskever,
Jan Leike, and Jeffrey Wu. Scaling and evaluating sparse autoencoders. In The Thirteenth International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2025.
[17] Lu Wang, Max Song, Rezvaneh Rezapour, Bum Chul Kwon, and Jina Huh-Yoo. People’s perceptions
toward bias and related concepts in large language models: A systematic review, 2024.
[18] Yiran Liu, Ke Yang, Zehan Qi, Xiao Liu, Yang Yu, and Cheng Xiang Zhai. Bias and volatility: A statistical
framework for evaluating large language model’s stereotypes and the associated generation inconsistency.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:110131–110155, 2024.
[19] Yue Huang, Lichao Sun, Haoran Wang, Siyuan Wu, Qihui Zhang, Yuan Li, Chujie Gao, Yixin Huang,
Wenhan Lyu, Yixuan Zhang, Xiner Li, Hanchi Sun, Zhengliang Liu, Yixin Liu, Yijue Wang, Zhikun Zhang,
Bertie Vidgen, Bhavya Kailkhura, Caiming Xiong, Chaowei Xiao, Chunyuan Li, Eric P. Xing, Furong
Huang, Hao Liu, Heng Ji, Hongyi Wang, Huan Zhang, Huaxiu Yao, Manolis Kellis, Marinka Zitnik, Meng
Jiang, Mohit Bansal, James Zou, Jian Pei, Jian Liu, Jianfeng Gao, Jiawei Han, Jieyu Zhao, Jiliang Tang,
Jindong Wang, Joaquin Vanschoren, John Mitchell, Kai Shu, Kaidi Xu, Kai-Wei Chang, Lifang He, Lifu
Huang, Michael Backes, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, Philip S. Yu, Pin-Yu Chen, Quanquan Gu, Ran Xu, Rex
Ying, Shuiwang Ji, Suman Jana, Tianlong Chen, Tianming Liu, Tianyi Zhou, William Yang Wang, Xiang
Li, Xiangliang Zhang, Xiao Wang, Xing Xie, Xun Chen, Xuyu Wang, Yan Liu, Yanfang Ye, Yinzhi Cao,
Yong Chen, and Yue Zhao. Trustllm: Trustworthiness in large language models. In Forty-first International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
[20] Yingji Li, Mengnan Du, Rui Song, Xin Wang, and Ying Wang. A survey on fairness in large language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10149, 2023.
[21] Sunipa Dev, Emily Sheng, Jieyu Zhao, Aubrie Amstutz, Jiao Sun, Yu Hou, Mattie Sanseverino, Jiin
Kim, Akihiro Nishi, Nanyun Peng, and Kai-Wei Chang. On measures of biases and harms in NLP.
In Yulan He, Heng Ji, Sujian Li, Yang Liu, and Chua-Hui Chang, editors, Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: AACL-IJCNLP 2022, pages 246–267, Online only, November 2022.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
[22] Jared Moore, Tanvi Deshpande, and Diyi Yang. Are large language models consistent over value-laden
questions? In Yaser Al-Onaizan, Mohit Bansal, and Yun-Nung Chen, editors, Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024, pages 15185–15221, Miami, Florida, USA, November 2024.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
[23] Sarath Sivaprasad, Pramod Kaushik, Sahar Abdelnabi, and Mario Fritz. Exploring value biases: How llms
deviate towards the ideal, 2024.
[24] Hongliu Cao. Writing style matters: An examination of bias and fairness in information retrieval systems.
In Proceedings of the Eighteenth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining, WSDM
’25, page 336–344, New York, NY, USA, 2025. Association for Computing Machinery.
[25] Arjun Panickssery, Samuel R. Bowman, and Shi Feng. LLM evaluators recognize and favor their own
generations. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024.
[26] Jiafu An, Difang Huang, Chen Lin, and Mingzhu Tai. Measuring gender and racial biases in large language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.15281, 2024.
[27] Huy Nghiem, John Prindle, Jieyu Zhao, and Hal Daumé Iii. “you gotta be a doctor, lin” : An investigation
of name-based bias of large language models in employment recommendations. In Yaser Al-Onaizan,
Mohit Bansal, and Yun-Nung Chen, editors, Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, pages 7268–7287, Miami, Florida, USA, November 2024. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
[28] Jiayi Ye, Yanbo Wang, Yue Huang, Dongping Chen, Qihui Zhang, Nuno Moniz, Tian Gao, Werner Geyer,
Chao Huang, Pin-Yu Chen, Nitesh V Chawla, and Xiangliang Zhang. Justice or prejudice? quantifying
biases in LLM-as-a-judge. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025.
[29] Jesutofunmi A Omiye, Jenna C Lester, Simon Spichak, Veronica Rotemberg, and Roxana Daneshjou.
Large language models propagate race-based medicine. NPJ Digital Medicine, 6(1):195, 2023.
[30] Yifan Yang, Xiaoyu Liu, Qiao Jin, Furong Huang, and Zhiyong Lu. Unmasking and quantifying racial bias
of large language models in medical report generation. Communications Medicine, 4(1):176, 2024.

11

[31] Brototo Deb and Adam Rodman. Racial differences in pain assessment and false beliefs about race in ai
models. JAMA Network Open, 7(10):e2437977–e2437977, 2024.
[32] Donald E. Bowen III, S. McKay Price, Luke C.D. Stein, and Ke Yang. Measuring and mitigating
racial disparities in large language model mortgage underwriting. http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.
4812158, April 2024. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4812158.
[33] Rahul Vats, Shekhar Agrawal, and Srinivasa Chippada. Bias detection and fairness in large language models
for financial services. International Journal of Scientific Research in Computer Science, Engineering and
Information Technology, 11:1329–1345, 03 2025.
[34] Zishan Guo, Renren Jin, Chuang Liu, Yufei Huang, Dan Shi, Supryadi, Linhao Yu, Yan Liu, Jiaxuan Li,
Bojian Xiong, and Deyi Xiong. Evaluating large language models: A comprehensive survey, 2023.
[35] Moin Nadeem, Anna Bethke, and Siva Reddy. StereoSet: Measuring stereotypical bias in pretrained
language models. In Chengqing Zong, Fei Xia, Wenjie Li, and Roberto Navigli, editors, Proceedings of
the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 5356–5371, Online, August
2021. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[36] Masahiro Kaneko and Danushka Bollegala. Unmasking the mask–evaluating social biases in masked
language models. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, volume 36, pages
11954–11962, 2022.
[37] Keita Kurita, Nidhi Vyas, Ayush Pareek, Alan W Black, and Yulia Tsvetkov. Measuring bias in contextualized word representations. In Marta R. Costa-jussà, Christian Hardmeier, Will Radford, and Kellie
Webster, editors, Proceedings of the First Workshop on Gender Bias in Natural Language Processing,
pages 166–172, Florence, Italy, August 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[38] Chandler May, Alex Wang, Shikha Bordia, Samuel R Bowman, and Rachel Rudinger. On measuring social
biases in sentence encoders. arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.10561, 2019.
[39] Wei Guo and Aylin Caliskan. Detecting emergent intersectional biases: Contextualized word embeddings
contain a distribution of human-like biases. In Proceedings of the 2021 AAAI/ACM Conference on AI,
Ethics, and Society, AIES ’21, page 122–133, New York, NY, USA, 2021. Association for Computing
Machinery.
[40] Aylin Caliskan, Joanna J Bryson, and Arvind Narayanan. Semantics derived automatically from language
corpora contain human-like biases. Science, 356(6334):183–186, 2017.
[41] Marc-Etienne Brunet, Colleen Alkalay-Houlihan, Ashton Anderson, and Richard Zemel. Understanding
the origins of bias in word embeddings. In Kamalika Chaudhuri and Ruslan Salakhutdinov, editors,
Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 97 of Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, pages 803–811. PMLR, 09–15 Jun 2019.
[42] Angus Nicolson, Lisa Schut, Alison Noble, and Yarin Gal. Explaining explainability: Recommendations
for effective use of concept activation vectors. Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2025.
[43] Zhihao Xu, Ruixuan HUANG, Changyu Chen, and Xiting Wang. Uncovering safety risks of large language
models through concept activation vector. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2024.
[44] Hanyu Zhang, Xiting Wang, Chengao Li, Xiang Ao, and Qing He. Controlling large language models
through concept activation vectors, 2025.
[45] Nina Panickssery, Nick Gabrieli, Julian Schulz, Meg Tong, Evan Hubinger, and Alexander Matt Turner.
Steering llama 2 via contrastive activation addition, 2024.
[46] Ruixuan Huang. Steering llms’ behavior with concept activation vectors, September 2024. Draft manuscript.
Available on LessWrong forum.
[47] Atakan Seyitoğlu, Aleksei Kuvshinov, Leo Schwinn, and Stephan Günnemann. Extracting unlearned
information from llms with activation steering, 2024.
[48] Andrew Ng.
Sparse autoencoder.
https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs294a/
sparseAutoencoder_2011new.pdf, 2011. CS294A Lecture Notes, Stanford University.
[49] Davide Ghilardi, Federico Belotti, and Marco Molinari. Efficient training of sparse autoencoders for large
language models via layer groups. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21508, 2024.

12

[50] Anish Mudide, Joshua Engels, Eric J Michaud, Max Tegmark, and Christian Schroeder de Witt. Efficient
dictionary learning with switch sparse autoencoders. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.08201, 2024.
[51] Senthooran Rajamanoharan, Tom Lieberum, Nicolas Sonnerat, Arthur Conmy, Vikrant Varma, János
Kramár, and Neel Nanda. Jumping ahead: Improving reconstruction fidelity with jumprelu sparse
autoencoders. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.14435, 2024.
[52] Luke R. Smith and Jonas Brinkmann. Interpreting preference models with sparse autoencoders. AI
Alignment Forum, 2024.
[53] Praveen Hegde. Effectiveness of sparse autoencoder for understanding and removing gender bias in LLMs.
In NeurIPS 2024 Workshop on Scientific Methods for Understanding Deep Learning, 2024.
[54] Adly Templeton, Tom Conerly, Jonathan Marcus, Jack Lindsey, Trenton Bricken, Brian Chen, Adam Pearce,
Craig Citro, Emmanuel Ameisen, Andy Jones, Hoagy Cunningham, Nicholas L Turner, Callum McDougall,
Monte MacDiarmid, C. Daniel Freeman, Theodore R. Sumers, Edward Rees, Joshua Batson, Adam Jermyn,
Shan Carter, Chris Olah, and Tom Henighan. Scaling monosemanticity: Extracting interpretable features
from claude 3 sonnet. Transformer Circuits Thread, 2024.
[55] Tolga Bolukbasi, Kai-Wei Chang, James Y Zou, Venkatesh Saligrama, and Adam T Kalai. Man is to
computer programmer as woman is to homemaker? debiasing word embeddings. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 29, 2016.
[56] Emily Sheng, Kai-Wei Chang, Premkumar Natarajan, and Nanyun Peng. The woman worked as a babysitter:
On biases in language generation. In Kentaro Inui, Jing Jiang, Vincent Ng, and Xiaojun Wan, editors,
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th
International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 3407–3412,
Hong Kong, China, November 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[57] OpenAI, :, Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P. Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark,
AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, Aleksander M ˛
adry, Alex Baker-Whitcomb,
Alex Beutel, Alex Borzunov, Alex Carney, Alex Chow, Alex Kirillov, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Alex
Renzin, Alex Tachard Passos, Alexander Kirillov, Alexi Christakis, Alexis Conneau, Ali Kamali, Allan
Jabri, Allison Moyer, Allison Tam, Amadou Crookes, Amin Tootoochian, Amin Tootoonchian, Ananya
Kumar, Andrea Vallone, Andrej Karpathy, Andrew Braunstein, Andrew Cann, Andrew Codispoti, Andrew
Galu, Andrew Kondrich, Andrew Tulloch, Andrey Mishchenko, Angela Baek, Angela Jiang, Antoine
Pelisse, Antonia Woodford, Anuj Gosalia, Arka Dhar, Ashley Pantuliano, Avi Nayak, Avital Oliver,
Barret Zoph, Behrooz Ghorbani, Ben Leimberger, Ben Rossen, Ben Sokolowsky, Ben Wang, Benjamin
Zweig, Beth Hoover, Blake Samic, Bob McGrew, Bobby Spero, Bogo Giertler, Bowen Cheng, Brad
Lightcap, Brandon Walkin, Brendan Quinn, Brian Guarraci, Brian Hsu, Bright Kellogg, Brydon Eastman,
Camillo Lugaresi, Carroll Wainwright, Cary Bassin, Cary Hudson, Casey Chu, Chad Nelson, Chak Li,
Chan Jun Shern, Channing Conger, Charlotte Barette, Chelsea Voss, Chen Ding, Cheng Lu, Chong Zhang,
Chris Beaumont, Chris Hallacy, Chris Koch, Christian Gibson, Christina Kim, Christine Choi, Christine
McLeavey, Christopher Hesse, Claudia Fischer, Clemens Winter, Coley Czarnecki, Colin Jarvis, Colin Wei,
Constantin Koumouzelis, Dane Sherburn, Daniel Kappler, Daniel Levin, Daniel Levy, David Carr, David
Farhi, David Mely, David Robinson, David Sasaki, Denny Jin, Dev Valladares, Dimitris Tsipras, Doug
Li, Duc Phong Nguyen, Duncan Findlay, Edede Oiwoh, Edmund Wong, Ehsan Asdar, Elizabeth Proehl,
Elizabeth Yang, Eric Antonow, Eric Kramer, Eric Peterson, Eric Sigler, Eric Wallace, Eugene Brevdo,
Evan Mays, Farzad Khorasani, Felipe Petroski Such, Filippo Raso, Francis Zhang, Fred von Lohmann,
Freddie Sulit, Gabriel Goh, Gene Oden, Geoff Salmon, Giulio Starace, Greg Brockman, Hadi Salman,
Haiming Bao, Haitang Hu, Hannah Wong, Haoyu Wang, Heather Schmidt, Heather Whitney, Heewoo
Jun, Hendrik Kirchner, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Hongyu Ren, Huiwen Chang, Hyung Won
Chung, Ian Kivlichan, Ian O’Connell, Ian O’Connell, Ian Osband, Ian Silber, Ian Sohl, Ibrahim Okuyucu,
Ikai Lan, Ilya Kostrikov, Ilya Sutskever, Ingmar Kanitscheider, Ishaan Gulrajani, Jacob Coxon, Jacob
Menick, Jakub Pachocki, James Aung, James Betker, James Crooks, James Lennon, Jamie Kiros, Jan
Leike, Jane Park, Jason Kwon, Jason Phang, Jason Teplitz, Jason Wei, Jason Wolfe, Jay Chen, Jeff
Harris, Jenia Varavva, Jessica Gan Lee, Jessica Shieh, Ji Lin, Jiahui Yu, Jiayi Weng, Jie Tang, Jieqi Yu,
Joanne Jang, Joaquin Quinonero Candela, Joe Beutler, Joe Landers, Joel Parish, Johannes Heidecke,
John Schulman, Jonathan Lachman, Jonathan McKay, Jonathan Uesato, Jonathan Ward, Jong Wook Kim,
Joost Huizinga, Jordan Sitkin, Jos Kraaijeveld, Josh Gross, Josh Kaplan, Josh Snyder, Joshua Achiam,
Joy Jiao, Joyce Lee, Juntang Zhuang, Justyn Harriman, Kai Fricke, Kai Hayashi, Karan Singhal, Katy
Shi, Kavin Karthik, Kayla Wood, Kendra Rimbach, Kenny Hsu, Kenny Nguyen, Keren Gu-Lemberg,
Kevin Button, Kevin Liu, Kiel Howe, Krithika Muthukumar, Kyle Luther, Lama Ahmad, Larry Kai,
Lauren Itow, Lauren Workman, Leher Pathak, Leo Chen, Li Jing, Lia Guy, Liam Fedus, Liang Zhou, Lien
Mamitsuka, Lilian Weng, Lindsay McCallum, Lindsey Held, Long Ouyang, Louis Feuvrier, Lu Zhang,
Lukas Kondraciuk, Lukasz Kaiser, Luke Hewitt, Luke Metz, Lyric Doshi, Mada Aflak, Maddie Simens,

13

Madelaine Boyd, Madeleine Thompson, Marat Dukhan, Mark Chen, Mark Gray, Mark Hudnall, Marvin
Zhang, Marwan Aljubeh, Mateusz Litwin, Matthew Zeng, Max Johnson, Maya Shetty, Mayank Gupta,
Meghan Shah, Mehmet Yatbaz, Meng Jia Yang, Mengchao Zhong, Mia Glaese, Mianna Chen, Michael
Janner, Michael Lampe, Michael Petrov, Michael Wu, Michele Wang, Michelle Fradin, Michelle Pokrass,
Miguel Castro, Miguel Oom Temudo de Castro, Mikhail Pavlov, Miles Brundage, Miles Wang, Minal
Khan, Mira Murati, Mo Bavarian, Molly Lin, Murat Yesildal, Nacho Soto, Natalia Gimelshein, Natalie
Cone, Natalie Staudacher, Natalie Summers, Natan LaFontaine, Neil Chowdhury, Nick Ryder, Nick
Stathas, Nick Turley, Nik Tezak, Niko Felix, Nithanth Kudige, Nitish Keskar, Noah Deutsch, Noel Bundick,
Nora Puckett, Ofir Nachum, Ola Okelola, Oleg Boiko, Oleg Murk, Oliver Jaffe, Olivia Watkins, Olivier
Godement, Owen Campbell-Moore, Patrick Chao, Paul McMillan, Pavel Belov, Peng Su, Peter Bak,
Peter Bakkum, Peter Deng, Peter Dolan, Peter Hoeschele, Peter Welinder, Phil Tillet, Philip Pronin,
Philippe Tillet, Prafulla Dhariwal, Qiming Yuan, Rachel Dias, Rachel Lim, Rahul Arora, Rajan Troll,
Randall Lin, Rapha Gontijo Lopes, Raul Puri, Reah Miyara, Reimar Leike, Renaud Gaubert, Reza Zamani,
Ricky Wang, Rob Donnelly, Rob Honsby, Rocky Smith, Rohan Sahai, Rohit Ramchandani, Romain Huet,
Rory Carmichael, Rowan Zellers, Roy Chen, Ruby Chen, Ruslan Nigmatullin, Ryan Cheu, Saachi Jain,
Sam Altman, Sam Schoenholz, Sam Toizer, Samuel Miserendino, Sandhini Agarwal, Sara Culver, Scott
Ethersmith, Scott Gray, Sean Grove, Sean Metzger, Shamez Hermani, Shantanu Jain, Shengjia Zhao,
Sherwin Wu, Shino Jomoto, Shirong Wu, Shuaiqi, Xia, Sonia Phene, Spencer Papay, Srinivas Narayanan,
Steve Coffey, Steve Lee, Stewart Hall, Suchir Balaji, Tal Broda, Tal Stramer, Tao Xu, Tarun Gogineni, Taya
Christianson, Ted Sanders, Tejal Patwardhan, Thomas Cunninghman, Thomas Degry, Thomas Dimson,
Thomas Raoux, Thomas Shadwell, Tianhao Zheng, Todd Underwood, Todor Markov, Toki Sherbakov,
Tom Rubin, Tom Stasi, Tomer Kaftan, Tristan Heywood, Troy Peterson, Tyce Walters, Tyna Eloundou,
Valerie Qi, Veit Moeller, Vinnie Monaco, Vishal Kuo, Vlad Fomenko, Wayne Chang, Weiyi Zheng, Wenda
Zhou, Wesam Manassra, Will Sheu, Wojciech Zaremba, Yash Patil, Yilei Qian, Yongjik Kim, Youlong
Cheng, Yu Zhang, Yuchen He, Yuchen Zhang, Yujia Jin, Yunxing Dai, and Yury Malkov. Gpt-4o system
card, 2024.
[58] Aaron Gokaslan and Vanya Cohen.
OpenWebTextCorpus, 2019.

Openwebtext corpus.

http://Skylion007.github.io/

[59] Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, Ilya Sutskever, et al. Language
models are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI blog, 1(8):9, 2019.
[60] Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, J. Zico Kolter, and Matt Fredrikson. Universal and transferable adversarial attacks
on aligned language models, 2023.
[61] Alireza Makhzani and Brendan Frey. k-sparse autoencoders, 2014.
[62] Johnny Lin. Neuronpedia: Interactive reference and tooling for analyzing neural networks, 2023. Software
available from neuronpedia.org.
[63] Gemma Team, Morgane Riviere, Shreya Pathak, Pier Giuseppe Sessa, Cassidy Hardin, Surya Bhupatiraju,
Léonard Hussenot, Thomas Mesnard, Bobak Shahriari, Alexandre Ramé, et al. Gemma 2: Improving open
language models at a practical size. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.00118, 2024.
[64] Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad AlDahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Alex Vaughan, et al. The llama 3 herd of models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783, 2024.
[65] Paula Czarnowska, Yogarshi Vyas, and Kashif Shah. Quantifying social biases in NLP: A generalization
and empirical comparison of extrinsic fairness metrics. Transactions of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, 9:1249–1267, 2021.
[66] Max Hort, Jie M. Zhang, Federica Sarro, and Mark Harman. Search-based automatic repair for fairness
and accuracy in decision-making software. Empirical Software Engineering, 29(1):36, 2024.
[67] Po-Sen Huang, Huan Zhang, Ray Jiang, Robert Stanforth, Johannes Welbl, Jack Rae, Vishal Maini, Dani
Yogatama, and Pushmeet Kohli. Reducing sentiment bias in language models via counterfactual evaluation.
In Trevor Cohn, Yulan He, and Yang Liu, editors, Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2020, pages 65–83, Online, November 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[68] Yingji Li, Mengnan Du, Rui Song, Xin Wang, and Ying Wang. A survey on fairness in large language
models, 2024.
[69] Xiang Zhang, Junbo Zhao, and Yann LeCun. Character-level convolutional networks for text classification.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 28, 2015.

14

[70] Andrew L. Maas, Raymond E. Daly, Peter T. Pham, Dan Huang, Andrew Y. Ng, and Christopher Potts.
Learning word vectors for sentiment analysis. In Dekang Lin, Yuji Matsumoto, and Rada Mihalcea,
editors, Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies, pages 142–150, Portland, Oregon, USA, June 2011. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
[71] Yuhang Zhou, Paiheng Xu, Xiaoyu Liu, Bang An, Wei Ai, and Furong Huang. Explore spurious correlations
at the concept level in language models for text classification. In Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and
Vivek Srikumar, editors, Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 478–492, Bangkok, Thailand, August 2024. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
[72] Soumya Barikeri, Anne Lauscher, Ivan Vulić, and Goran Glavaš. RedditBias: A real-world resource for
bias evaluation and debiasing of conversational language models. In Chengqing Zong, Fei Xia, Wenjie Li,
and Roberto Navigli, editors, Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long
Papers), pages 1941–1955, Online, August 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[73] Anna Kruspe. Towards detecting unanticipated bias in large language models, 2024.
[74] Peiyi Zhang, Yazhou Zhang, Bo Wang, Lu Rong, Prayag Tiwari, and Jing Qin. Edu-values: Towards
evaluating the chinese education values of large language models, 2025.
[75] Samuel Schmidgall, Carl Harris, Ime Essien, Daniel Olshvang, Tawsifur Rahman, Ji Woong Kim, Rojin
Ziaei, Jason Eshraghian, Peter Abadir, and Rama Chellappa. Evaluation and mitigation of cognitive biases
in medical language models. npj Digital Medicine, 7(1):295, 2024.
[76] Wikipedia contributors. Socioeconomic status and mental health — Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia,
2024. [Online; accessed 8-May-2025].
[77] John D. Glover, Diana M. Hetzel, and Sarah K. Tennant. The socioeconomic gradient and chronic illness
and associated risk factors in australia. Australia and New Zealand Health Policy, 1(1):8, 2004. PMID:
15679942, PMCID: PMC546403.
[78] F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel, M. Blondel, P. Prettenhofer,
R. Weiss, V. Dubourg, J. Vanderplas, A. Passos, D. Cournapeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, and E. Duchesnay.
Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 12:2825–2830, 2011.
[79] Qihan Huang, Jie Song, Mengqi Xue, Haofei Zhang, Bingde Hu, Huiqiong Wang, Hao Jiang, Xingen Wang,
and Mingli Song. Lg-cav: Train any concept activation vector with language guidance. In A. Globerson,
L. Mackey, D. Belgrave, A. Fan, U. Paquet, J. Tomczak, and C. Zhang, editors, Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, volume 37, pages 39522–39551. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024.
[80] Joseph Bloom, Curt Tigges, Anthony Duong, and David Chanin. Saelens. https://github.com/
jbloomAus/SAELens, 2024.

15

A

Limitations

B IAS L ENS uses a single prompt for CAV-based steering, though in practice multiple prompts may
satisfy the steering criteria listed in Appendix B.4. This could lead to some variability in results.
Future work may mitigate this by averaging bias scores over a diverse set of prompts. Additionally,
B IAS L ENS is based solely on cosine similarity, which may fail to capture complex or non-linear
relationships in the representation space; future work could consider more expressive metrics, such
as geometric distances or kernel-based measures.

B

Details of B IAS L ENS

The settings in this section are consistently used in §3.3 and §4.
B.1

Probe Datasets

For each concept, we construct a probe dataset consisting of 150 positive and 150 negative sentences:
• Negative samples. We sample from O PEN W EB T EXT [58], a large-scale web corpus commonly
used as pretraining data for LLMs. It serves here as concept-unrelated samples due to its high
diversity in contents. We segment text by sentence boundaries and filter for samples of ≤ 25 tokens.
One sample may contain multiple short sentences. We then randomly select 150 filtered entries.
• Positive samples. We generate 150 concept-relevant sentences using GPT-4o, with total length
limited to 25 tokens. The generation process follows a structured prompting strategy designed to
ensure both semantic relevance and diversity. Details are provided in Appendix B.2 and Figure 5.
B.2

Templates of Synthesizing Positive Probe Data

We construct all prompts by concatenating sampled sentence components such as a verb, an aspect, a
tone, a context, and a format, which ensures high diversity in the generated data.
Figure 5 shows one illustrative example of this prompting strategy. we prompt GPT-4o[57] using
structured templates composed of sampled elements: a verb (e.g., “describe”), an aspect (e.g.,
“personality”), a tone, a context (e.g., “in a documentary”), and a format (e.g., “a brief narrative”).
These are inserted in the form of a template. Then, We append fairness-oriented generation guidelines
to reduce stereotypes and enforce diversity. All components are generated or curated using GPT-4o
to ensure semantic alignment and lexical variation. Each output is constrained to ≤ 10 words. This
process yields 150 diverse, high-relevance sentences per concept.
We encourage readers to refer to our GitHub repository for the complete set of prompt templates.
B.3

Details in Deriving CAVs

To obtain CAVs, we fit a logistic regression classifier at each transformer layer to distinguish
concept-relevant from irrelevant activations. Each classifier is trained using scikit-learn [78]’s
LogisticRegression with default hyperparameters. The input features are the last-token activations from each transformer block, and the training labels are binary. All classifiers are trained
independently per layer, and the classifier’s normalized weight vector is used as the CAV. Classifiers
are evaluated using an 80%-20% train-test split.
B.4

Steering Prompt Examples of B IAS L ENS

The complete set of steering prompts used in this work is summarized in Table 5. When selecting steering prompts, we primarily consider three criteria: (1) suitability to reflect realistic bias-exploration
contexts (e.g., simulating review scenarios), (2) grammatical correctness to naturally elicit both target
and reference concepts, and (3) sensitivity to steering, meaning the prompt should effectively allow
subsequent text generations to be influenced by the corresponding CAV. The prompts used here are
all empirically valid. Readers can refer to our GitHub repository for more details.
16

verbs
aspects
tones
contexts
formats

= ['describe', 'portray', 'depict', …]
= [ 'appearance', 'personality', 'work habits', …]
= ['Keep your description neutral and objective…', 'Present in a positive tone…',...]
= [ 'in a professional profile', 'in a documentary', 'in a career guide',...]
= ['a short paragraph', 'bullet points', 'a brief narrative', … ]

# Randomly choose a combination.
# Build the prompt
prompt = f"{verb} the {aspect} of the concept “{concept}” {context}. "
prompt += f"Present this in the form of {format}. "
prompt += {tone}
# Add diversity guidelines
prompt += "Guidelines:"
prompt += "- Avoid relying on stereotypes while acknowledging realistic experiences."
prompt += "- Consider intersectionality and diverse backgrounds."
prompt += "- Focus on professional characteristics rather than personal attributes unless relevant."
prompt += "- Be mindful of implicit bias in your description."
prompt += "- Your output should be within 10 words."
[
{“role”:“system”,“content”:“You are a helpful assistant.”},
{“role”:“user”,“content”: prompt}
]

Figure 5: Prompt template for synthesizing positive probe samples using GPT-4o.
Gemma 2 2B
Exp. type

Target Concepts

Prompt

Sentiment Bias(§4.2)

Yelp Concepts (food/service/price)
IMDB Concepts(music/comedy/acting)

“From the moment I arrived”
“From the moment it started,”

Gender Bias(§4.2)

WinoBias Concepts(40 career types)

“Identified as ”

Potential Bias(§4.3)

Medical Concepts
Educational Concepts

“I am diagnosing a patient as a doctor. The patient is ”
“As a teacher, I noticed that this student ”

Exp. type

Target Concepts

Prompt

Sentiment Bias(§4.2)

Yelp Concepts (food/service/price)
IMDB Concepts(music/comedy/acting)

“I had something to say after the visit”
“I had something to say after the movie”

Gender Bias(§4.2)

WinoBias Concepts(40 career types)

“Commonly seen as ”

Potential Bias(§4.3)

Medical Concepts
Educational Concepts

“I am diagnosing a patient as a doctor. The patient is ”
“As a teacher, I noticed that this student ”

Exp. type

Target Concepts

Prompt

Sentiment Bias(§4.2)

Yelp Concepts (food/service/price)
IMDB Concepts(music/comedy/acting)

“This is how I began the review:”
“This is how I began my thoughts:”

Gender Bias(§4.2)

WinoBias Concepts(40 career types)

“They’re often viewed ”

Potential Bias(§4.3)

Medical Concepts
Educational Concepts

“I am diagnosing a patient as a doctor. The patient is ”
“As a teacher, I noticed that this student ”

Gemma 2 9B

Llama 3.1 8B

Table 5: Bias evaluation prompts and concepts across different models

B.5

Templates of Classifying SAE Features

In §3.3, we use GPT-4o-mini to classify whether each SAE feature is concept-relevant, based on its
Neuronpedia description. The prompt template is shown in Figure 6.
B.6

Further Results on CAV-Based Steering Effects

We provide additional examples where steering has limited effect on output text but still causes
notable changes in conceptual representations. In Figure 7(a), the model already mentions the
concept “service” without steering. After steering, the output remains similar, yet the proportion of
17

[

{“role”:“system”,“content”:“You are a helpful assistant.”},
{“role”:“user”,“content”:

“Classify the feature based on its description. Candidate classes: 1. features relevant to the concept
'{concept}'; 2. other features. Description:{model_outputs}. Only output '1' or '2'. Your answer:”
]

}

Figure 6: Prompt template for classifying SAE features as concept-relevant or not using GPT-4o-mini.

(prompt) This is a review about a
shopping experience at a mall:
(response) I was in the mall with
my family ... we were greeted by a
friendly hostess who showed us to
our table ...
concept=“service”

(prompt) This is a review about a
shopping experience at a mall:
(response) I recently visited the
mall on a Saturday afternoon, ...
The staff members were friendly
and helpful, providing assistance
when needed…

(prompt) This is a review about a
film:
(response) <em>The Last of the
Mohicans</em>.
The film is based on the novel by
James Fenimore Cooper. The film
was directed by ...

food-related:
4.41%
unrelated:
95.59%

SAE features

concept=“music”

(prompt) This is a review about a
film:
(response) The film is about a girl
who is in love with a boy. She
wants to be with him all the time.
She can’t stop thinking about him...

food-related:
15.91%
unrelated:
84.09%

food-related:
0%
unrelated:
100%

SAE features

food-related:
14.74%
unrelated:
85.26%

SAE features

SAE features

(a) concept-related contents exist before steering

(b) concept-related contents never appear

Figure 7: Case analysis of failed steering with successful concept extraction. (a) Concept-related
content already exists in the original output, making steering effects less visible. (b) Concept-related
content never appears in the output. In both cases, the SAE still captures increased activation of
relevant features, showing that B IAS L ENS can extract meaningful concept representations even when
steering has limited surface effect.
service-related SAE features increases from 4.41% to 15.91%. In Figure 7(b), the model does not
mention “music” before or after steering, but music-related features increase from 0% to 14.74%.
These results suggest that CAV-based steering can shift activations toward the intended concept, even
when surface-level outputs do not change.
B.7

Robustness of B IAS L ENS to Probing Data

A key component of B IAS L ENS is the use of Concept Activation Vectors (CAVs) to capture conceptrelevant directions in model activations. In the main experiments (§4), we train 50 CAVs per model,
each representing a distinct concept. Table 6 reports the classification accuracy of the corresponding
linear classifiers across all layers. For all models, the classifiers achieve a mean accuracy above 99%,
with the best accuracy reaching 100%. These results demonstrate that, despite the diversity of probe
data, the classifiers can reliably separate concept-related from unrelated activations—indicating the
CAVs are meaningful and consistent, in line with LG-CAV [79].
Importantly, this separation happens only during the CAV training stage—the sole component of
B IAS L ENS that uses probe data (see Figure 2). All downstream evaluations rely exclusively on
internal activations and learned concept directions. This shows that B IAS L ENS , as a whole, is robust
to the construction and content of the probing dataset.
Model

Best Accuracy

Worst Accuracy

Mean Accuracy

Gemma 2 2B
100.00%
90.00%
99.87%
Gemma 2 9B
100.00%
93.33%
99.82%
Llama 3.1 8B
100.00%
81.67%
99.53%
Table 6: Classification accuracy of logistic regression classifiers used to generate CAVs.

18

C

Experimental Details

All experiments are conducted on two NVIDIA RTX A6000 GPUs.
C.1

Model and SAE Settings

We evaluate B IAS L ENS on three publicly available LLMs. Table 7 summarizes their parameter sizes
and the corresponding Sparse Autoencoder (SAE) settings used for projecting final-layer activations.
Model

Params

Layers

Hidden Size

SAE Dim

SAE Name

SAE ID

Gemma 2 2B [63]
Gemma 2 9B [63]
Llama 3.1 8B [64]

2.6B
9.2B
8.0B

26
41
32

2304
3584
4096

16,384
16,384
32,768

gemma-scope-2b-pt-res-canonical
gemma-scope-9b-pt-res-canonical
llama_scope_lxr_8x

layer_25/width_16k/canonical
layer_41/width_16k/canonical
l31r_8x

Table 7: Model specifications and corresponding SAE configurations.
Gemma 2 2B and Gemma 2 9B share the same architecture but differ in parameter scale, while
Gemma 2 9B and Llama 3.1 8B have similar sizes but distinct architectures. This setup demonstrates
the broad applicability of B IAS L ENS across models of varying structure and scale. For each model,
we utilize its last-layer SAE.
All SAEs are based on the same symmetric linear structure with a single encoder and decoder, using
the JumpReLU activation [51]. To ensure comparability, we select SAEs with similar dimensionality
(16k or 32k). All SAEs are available at the SAELens repository [80].
C.2

Baselines

We compare B IAS L ENS against eight widely used bias evaluation metrics, covering both extrinsic
and intrinsic behavioral metrics.
C.2.1

Extrinsic Behavioral Metrics

We include six group-based fairness metrics widely used in behavioral bias evaluations.
F1 gap (|F1-Diff|) [6] Originally proposed to measure gender bias in coreference resolution,
this metric quantifies the performance asymmetry between two opposing demographic conditions.
Formally,
|F1-Diff| = |F 1pro − F 1anti | ,
(5)
where F 1pro and F 1anti denote the model’s F1 scores on samples aligned and misaligned with common
stereotypes, respectively.
In our setup, we adapt this metric to sentiment-based bias: for each target concept, we evaluate
the model’s classification performance across positive and negative sentiment groups, treating the
positive group as pro-stereotypical. Thus,
|F1-Diff| = |F 1pos − F 1neg | .

(6)

We use the absolute value because our goal is to quantify the degree of bias, without considering its
polarity.
Equal Opportunity Difference (EOD) EOD measures the difference in true positive rates (TPR)
between two demographic groups. It evaluates whether a model offers equal opportunity for correct
classification across groups. Formally, let G1 and G2 denote two groups, and define:
EOD = |TPRG1 − TPRG2 | ,

where

TPRG =

TPG
.
TPG + FNG

(7)

Here, TPG and FNG denote the true positives and false negatives for group G. A smaller EOD
implies fairer treatment in terms of correct positive predictions. EOD measures the difference in true
positive rates between demographic groups.
19

Individual Fairness Metric (I.F.) This metric measures the local sensitivity of model outputs to
group-specific conditions. For each template, we construct sentence pairs that differ only in their
reference concept (e.g., positive vs. negative sentiment) while keeping the target concept fixed.
Let A denote the set of reference groups and M the number of such templates. For each pair of
reference groups (a, â) ∈ A × A, we compute the Wasserstein-1 distance W1 between the sentiment
distributions PS (xm ) and PS (x̂m ) of their completions. I.F. is defined as the average pairwise
distance over all reference group pairs and templates:

I.F. =

M
X
X
2
W1 (PS (xm ), PS (x̂m )).
M |A|(|A| − 1) m=1
a,â∈A

Higher values of I.F. indicate stronger dependence of model behavior on specific group conditions,
implying potential bias.
Group Fairness Metric (G.F.) This metric assesses global distributional disparity in model behavior. For each reference group a ∈ A, we compute the sentiment score distribution PSa over all
generated samples. Let PS∗ denote the aggregated sentiment distribution over all groups. G.F. is
defined as the average Wasserstein-1 distance between each group-specific distribution and the global
distribution:

G.F. =

1 X
W1 (PSa , PS∗ ).
|A|
a∈A

A larger G.F. value implies that group-specific outputs diverge significantly from the overall distribution, suggesting systemic group-level bias in model predictions.
C.2.2

Intrinsic Behavioral Metrics

We also consider two intrinsic behavioral metrics that focus on representational properties of LLMs.
SEAT Test(Sentence Encoder Association Test) SEAT [7] adapts the Word Embedding Association Test (WEAT) [40] to sentence-level encoders. It quantifies how strongly a model associates a
target concept with two contrasting attributes. Given two sets of target sentences X and Y , and two
sets of attribute sentences A and B, SEAT defines the association score of a sentence s ∈ X ∪ Y
with attribute sets as:

s(s, A, B) =

1 X
1 X
cos(⃗s, ⃗a) −
cos(⃗s, ⃗b),
|A|
|B|
a∈A

b∈B

where ⃗s, ⃗a, and ⃗b are the sentence embeddings extracted from the encoder under test, and cos(·, ·)
denotes cosine similarity.
The overall SEAT score is then computed as the difference in association means between the two
target sets:
SEAT(X, Y, A, B) = meanx∈X s(x, A, B) − meany∈Y s(y, A, B).
A larger magnitude implies stronger stereotypical alignment. In our experiments, sentence templates
are adapted to match the evaluation concepts, and embeddings are taken from the final hidden layer
of the LLM.
Perplexity Test Following [72], this test evaluates bias by comparing perplexity-based likelihoods of a language model across demographic variants. Given a set of minimal prompt pairs
20

“I am classifying the sentiment of the sentence "{sentence}". Between the label "positive" and
"negative", I will classify this sentence as ”

Figure 8: Prompt template for sentiment classification task.
(1)

(2)

{(pi , pi )}N
i=1 that differ only in a reference concept (e.g., gender), the model generates a continuation {ci }N
i=1 for each prompt. For each continuation, we compute the conditional perplexity:


|ci |
X
1
PPL(ci | pi ) = exp −
log P (ci,t | ci,<t , pi ) ,
(8)
|ci | t=1
where P (ci,t | ci,<t , pi ) denotes the model’s token-level probability under the prompt pi .
A Student’s t-test is then applied to the perplexity values from the two groups. The test outputs
a t-value, indicating the magnitude of perplexity asymmetry, and a p-value, indicating statistical
significance. Higher absolute t-values suggest stronger behavioral disparity, while only results with
p < 0.05 are considered statistically valid for downstream analysis.
C.3
C.3.1

Datasets
Sentiment Bias Datasets

To evaluate extrinsic behavioral metrics, we construct sentiment classification datasets based on
existing corpora. For Yelp and IMDB, we adopt GPT-based labeling in [] to identify which samples
express specific target concepts. For each concept, we build a binary sentiment classification dataset
containing 2,000 samples: 1,000 that are relevant to the concept and 1,000 that do not. Each subset is
balanced with respect to sentiment polarity, containing 50% positive and 50% negative examples.
Since our evaluated models are not instruction-tuned, we convert sentiment classification into a
continuation task using prompt formats suitable for autoregressive generation, as shown in 8.
C.3.2

Gender Bias Datasets

We construct customized subsets of the WinoBias dataset [6] to support the computation of intrinsic
behavioral metrics.
To calculate PG, for each occupation concept, we generate a pair of gender-contrastive datasets
using WinoBias templates. Specifically, we replace the placeholder [occupation] with a concrete
occupation term and adjust gendered pronouns to uniformly express either male or female. Each
dataset contains 794 sentence pairs, where each pair differs only in gender. This setting allows us to
isolate gender bias in language modeling behavior with respect to occupational descriptions.
To compute SEAT scores, we construct two sets of target examples (male and female) using the
gendered example sentences provided in WinoBias. We also define two attribute sets:
• Attr1 (Target occupation): Formed by inserting a specific occupation word into several sentence
templates (e.g., “She is a [occupation]”).
• Attr2 (Other occupations): Constructed by randomly sampling alternative occupation words and
inserting them into the same templates.
Each SEAT test includes 144 male examples, 144 female examples, 14 Attr1 examples, and 546
Attr2 examples. This configuration enables robust association testing between gender categories and
individual occupations in contextualized embeddings.
C.4

Metrics

We quantify the agreement between B IAS L ENS and baseline bias metrics using Spearman correlation
coefficients. Formally, given two bias metrics, we first compute their respective scores for all
applicable target and reference concept pairs, i.e. all types of biases, resulting in two corresponding
(B IAS L ENS )
(base)
(B IAS L ENS )
(base)
sets of values: {si
} and {si
}. Let ri
and ri
denote the ranks of these
scores in their respective sets. The Spearman correlation coefficient r is then computed as follows:
21

r =1−

6

(B IAS L ENS )
(base) 2
− ri
)
i (ri
,
n(n2 − 1)

P

(9)

where n is the number of applicable biases. A higher Spearman correlation coefficient indicates
that the two metrics rank biases similarly. Such a strong correlation implies that the metrics provide
mutually supportive evidence and thus offer comparable insights regarding the presence and strength
of biases.

D

Full Results for Correlation Evaluation

This section reports the full set of bias scores used for computing Spearman correlation coefficients.
Table 10 shows the values of all bias metrics across six sentiment-related concepts and three models.
For gender bias in occupations, we report SEAT scores and perplexity-based scores across 40
occupations in Table 11 (Gemma 2 2B), Table 12 (Gemma 2 9B), and Table 13 (Llama 3.1 8B). In
Table 10, B IAS L ENS results are marked with gray . In tables 11 ∼ 13, SEAT p-values ≤ 0.05 are
marked with light yellow , and Perplexity p-values ≤ 0.05 with light orange . Correlations in §4.2
are computed using only entries meeting the corresponding p-value threshold.
Table 8: Bias scores across models and concepts.

Model

Concepts

Metrics
acting

comedy

music

food

price

service

Gemma 2 2B

|F1-Diff|
EOD
I.F.
G.F.
B IAS L ENS

0.0125
0.0931
0.0220
0.0043
0.0007

0.0283
0.0985
0.0440
0.0079
0.1565

0.0167
0.1025
0.0456
0.0085
0.0388

0.0222
0.0200
0.0400
0.0200
0.0601

0.0155
0.0056
0.0325
0.0038
0.0218

0.0309
0.0122
0.0320
0.0041
0.0652

Gemma 2 9B

|F1-Diff|
EOD
I.F.
G.F.
B IAS L ENS

0.0250
0.0238
0.0383
0.0192
0.5295

0.0414
0.0377
0.0420
0.0210
0.5444

0.0262
0.0407
0.0295
0.0147
0.5337

0.0041
0.0038
0.0225
0.0112
0.1266

0.0127
0.0125
0.0193
0.0097
0.4215

0.0153
0.0153
0.0064
0.0032
0.3083

Llama 3.1 8B

|F1-Diff|
EOD
I.F.
G.F.
B IAS L ENS

0.0057
0.0505
0.0100
0.0015
0.1289

0.0025
0.0485
0.0090
0.0014
0.0664

0.0027
0.1339
0.0109
0.0008
0.0195

0.0098
0.0095
0.0086
0.0043
0.2490

0.0290
0.0292
0.0051
0.0026
0.2422

0.0083
0.0076
0.0089
0.0044
0.4395

Table 10: Bias evaluation metrics across different models and conceptual dimensions.

E

Full Results on Explored Potential Biases

In §4.3, we introduced the potential biases uncovered by B IAS L ENS in the medical domain for
Gemma 2 2B. Here, we present additional findings in the education domain.
In education domain, target concepts include academic-related categories such as “math” and “college”, while reference concepts cover gender, income level, race, socioeconomic status (SES), and
22

language background. As shown in Table 14, we observe more pronounced patterns. Racial bias
emerges in judgments of students’ academic strengths (e.g., math, science) and perceived learning
ability. Income bias appears in evaluations of suitability for advanced programs such as gifted
classes or college admissions. High-income backgrounds are more often associated with academic
competence, reflecting real-world social stereotypes. Interestingly, we also detect non-obvious associations—such as local residency influencing perceived subject expertise—demonstrating the utility of
B IAS L ENS in revealing subtle and unexpected biases in LLMs.
We conduct the same analysis for Gemma 2 9B, with results shown in Table 15. The overall pattern
is similar to Gemma 2 2B. In the medical domain, bias mainly arises from gender and income, and
local residency also influences judgments on certain conditions, such as severe pain or cancer. In the
education domain, judgments about students are strongly affected by income and SES, indicating that
G EMMA 2 9B is more likely to reflect socioeconomic bias when assessing academic potential.
Results for Llama 3.1 8B are shown in Table 17. Compared to the Gemma models, Llama 3.1 8B
exhibits less pronounced bias scores. In the medical domain, we observe mild income and insurancerelated bias. In the education domain, most target-reference concept pairs do not exhibit significant
bias, possibly due to weaker alignment between them. Overall, this model shows subtle traces of
gender and local-residency-related bias.
Table 11: Full results of occupation bias on Gemma 2 2B. SEAT p-values ≤ 0.05 are marked with
light yellow , and Perplexity p-values ≤ 0.05 with light orange .
occupation
accountant
analyst
assistant
attendant
auditor
baker
carpenter
cashier
CEO
chief
cleaner
clerk
construction
worker
cook
counselor
designer
developer
driver
editor
farmer
guard
hairdresser
housekeeper
janitor
laborer
lawyer
librarian
manager
mechanic
mover
nurse

SEAT Test

Perplexity Test

B IAS L ENS

effect-size

p-value

t-value

p-value

-0.0880
0.1420
-0.3886
-0.5377
0.3644
0.3864
0.4234
0.0375
-0.0205
0.0511
-0.1736
-0.0945

0.7789
0.1100
0.9998
1.0000
0.0010
0.0005
0.0002
0.3802
0.5702
0.3323
0.9300
0.7869

-5.9328
-6.7114
-5.3983
-5.2643
-4.8817
-6.8766
-7.7783
-1.7925
-5.0641
-6.8679
-3.7471
-5.8404

0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0733
0.0000
0.0000
0.0002
0.0000

0.3034
0.2757
0.2693
0.2790
0.2853
0.3129
0.3176
0.2982
0.3130
0.2204
0.2759
0.2691

-0.0763

0.7454

-6.0677

0.0000

0.3347

0.3636
-0.2329
-0.4188
0.2509
0.2998
0.1309
0.3039
0.3339
-0.6155
-1.0979
0.3794
0.0278
-0.1111
-0.4195
0.2807
0.3963
0.4406
-0.6321

0.0009
0.9779
0.9996
0.0170
0.0066
0.1351
0.0044
0.0022
1.0000
1.0000
0.0005
0.4111
0.8288
1.0000
0.0080
0.0006
0.0001
1.0000

-4.7926
-5.1672
-6.4438
-5.2608
-6.7790
-5.6284
-5.6431
-5.7580
-3.6176
-0.8284
-6.8807
-7.5959
-5.3598
-2.5374
-4.9715
-7.9098
-6.9644
2.2668

0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0003
0.4076
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0113
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0235

0.2869
0.2592
0.2078
0.1601
0.2958
0.1667
0.2753
0.2545
0.2160
0.2524
0.2934
0.3204
0.2885
0.2173
0.2504
0.2994
0.2923
0.2441

Continued on next page

23

Occupation
physician
receptionist
salesperson
secretary
sheriff
supervisor
tailor
teacher
writer

SEAT Test

Perplexity Test

effect-size

p-value

t-value

p-value

-0.1930
-1.1931
-0.3085
0.1155
0.6038
0.2181
0.2140
-0.6400
-0.1604

0.9518
1.0000
0.9941
0.1689
0.0001
0.0298
0.0353
1.0000
0.9116

-6.8786
-1.6331
-5.3541
-3.3812
-5.3607
-5.9205
-6.1805
-3.8105
-5.1152

0.0000
0.1027
0.0000
0.0007
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0001
0.0000

B IAS L ENS
0.2837
0.2729
0.2541
0.2371
0.2958
0.1807
0.2606
0.1741
0.1493

Table 12: Full results of occupation bias on Gemma 2 9B. SEAT p-values ≤ 0.05 are marked with
light yellow , and Perplexity p-values ≤ 0.05 with light orange .
occupation
accountant
analyst
assistant
attendant
auditor
baker
carpenter
cashier
CEO
chief
cleaner
clerk
construction
worker
cook
counselor
designer
developer
driver
editor
farmer
guard
hairdresser
housekeeper
janitor
laborer
lawyer
librarian
manager
mechanic
mover
nurse
physician
receptionist
salesperson
secretary
sheriff

SEAT Test

Perplexity Test

B IAS L ENS

effect-size

p-value

t-value

p-value

0.2022
0.3116
-0.1879
-0.3242
0.3453
-0.1340
0.7722
-0.3337
0.1077
0.6186
-0.1590
0.0156

0.0445
0.0044
0.9457
0.9963
0.0023
0.8739
0.0001
0.9984
0.1800
0.0001
0.9094
0.4436

-4.9593
-5.7949
-4.5314
-4.2731
-4.6485
-5.1524
-5.7172
-4.0587
-5.3965
-6.0127
-4.8026
-4.0212

0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0001
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0001

0.1252
0.1362
0.1138
0.1477
0.1391
0.1280
0.1463
0.1218
0.1188
0.1621
0.1460
0.1426

0.2657

0.0122

-4.6278

0.0000

0.1313

0.1876
-0.4214
-0.4618
0.4854
0.5271
0.1281
0.3562
0.3989
-0.8032
-0.9934
0.3288
0.2389
0.2101
-0.6493
0.2760
0.6194
0.5942
-1.0880
0.0379
-1.0378
-0.0391
-0.3168
0.5115

0.0523
0.9999
0.9999
0.0001
0.0001
0.1369
0.0011
0.0007
1.0000
1.0000
0.0033
0.0208
0.0345
1.0000
0.0104
0.0001
0.0001
1.0000
0.3731
1.0000
0.6258
0.9963
0.0001

-4.2971
-4.8225
-5.7251
-6.1558
-5.7453
-5.0071
-5.8263
-5.4150
-4.8824
-3.1916
-4.9127
-4.6873
-4.9629
-3.2744
-5.6244
-6.0566
-5.4041
-2.6023
-5.0263
-2.9371
-4.1250
-4.5273
-4.6153

0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0014
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0011
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0094
0.0000
0.0034
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

0.1310
0.1290
0.1534
0.1251
0.1369
0.1501
0.1578
0.1403
0.1312
0.1337
0.1439
0.1351
0.1153
0.1270
0.0977
0.1484
0.1718
0.1216
0.1704
0.1185
0.1369
0.1090
0.1429

Continued on next page
24

Occupation
supervisor
tailor
teacher
writer

SEAT Test

Perplexity Test

effect-size

p-value

t-value

p-value

0.3183
0.0608
-0.7175
-0.3566

0.0027
0.3053
1.0000
0.9993

-5.0396
-4.8152
-3.9066
-4.4976

0.0000
0.0000
0.0001
0.0000

B IAS L ENS
0.1098
0.1474
0.1415
0.1274

Table 13: Full results of occupation bias on Llama 3.1 8B. SEAT p-values ≤ 0.05 are marked with
light yellow , and Perplexity p-values ≤ 0.05 with light orange .
occupation
accountant
analyst
assistant
attendant
auditor
baker
carpenter
cashier
CEO
chief
cleaner
clerk
construction
worker
cook
counselor
designer
developer
driver
editor
farmer
guard
hairdresser
housekeeper
janitor
laborer
lawyer
librarian
manager
mechanic
mover
nurse
physician
receptionist
salesperson
secretary
sheriff
supervisor
tailor
teacher
writer

SEAT Test

Perplexity Test

B IAS L ENS

effect-size

p-value

t-value

p-value

0.3044
0.4243
-0.0456
-0.0525
0.4575
-0.3895
0.3093
-0.1902
0.0716
0.3646
-0.0488
0.3128

0.0057
0.0003
0.6482
0.6767
0.0001
0.9998
0.0048
0.9442
0.2697
0.0009
0.6617
0.0040

-2.3953
-2.2573
-1.3581
-1.6580
-3.2553
-3.3322
-6.9947
-0.4658
-3.3299
-4.7936
-1.0442
-1.6978

0.0167
0.0241
0.1746
0.0975
0.0012
0.0009
0.0000
0.6414
0.0009
0.0000
0.2965
0.0897

0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0039
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

0.2496

0.0185

-5.8644

0.0000

0.0000

-0.3148
-0.3827
-0.5169
0.4381
0.4875
0.0940
0.0587
0.4309
-0.5615
-0.9255
0.2103
0.2909
0.2482
-0.5312
0.4146
0.4622
0.3515
-0.5222
-0.1136
-1.1453
0.2196
-0.1607
0.5936
0.3434
-0.4553
-0.5047
-0.0333

0.9971
0.9992
1.0000
0.0003
0.0001
0.2092
0.3130
0.0002
1.0000
1.0000
0.0361
0.0058
0.0180
1.0000
0.0004
0.0001
0.0015
1.0000
0.8356
1.0000
0.0319
0.9144
0.0001
0.0015
1.0000
0.9999
0.6163

-1.1274
-0.7571
-1.8682
-3.9107
-4.0157
-2.8225
-5.8479
-4.7161
0.1853
3.9004
-4.4642
-5.3378
-3.6736
1.0328
-3.1768
-5.1976
-3.2649
3.3381
-3.3344
2.8635
-1.7476
0.1386
-5.1663
-2.3280
-4.7115
-0.4495
-2.0936

0.2597
0.4491
0.0619
0.0001
0.0001
0.0048
0.0000
0.0000
0.8530
0.0001
0.0000
0.0000
0.0002
0.3018
0.0015
0.0000
0.0011
0.0009
0.0009
0.0042
0.0807
0.8898
0.0000
0.0200
0.0000
0.6531
0.0365

0.0039
0.0078
0.0000
0.0039
0.0039
0.0000
0.0039
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0039
0.0039
0.0000
0.0000
0.0039
0.0039
0.0039
0.0000
0.0039
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0039
0.0039
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

25

Table 14: Bias scores between reference and target concepts in the educational domain, computed
using B IAS L ENS on Gemma 2 2B. For each target concept, the highest bias score across all reference
concept pairs is highlighted in mid blue and the second highest in light blue .
Target Concepts
vs. Reference Concepts

math

science

gifted
program

college

remedial
class

male vs female
rich vs poor
white vs black
native vs ESL
low-SES vs high-SES

0.0041
0.0509
0.1304
0.2223
0.0437

0.0187
0.0627
0.1472
0.2933
0.0213

0.0013
0.1158
0.0964
0.1189
0.0676

0.0392
0.1182
0.0533
0.0171
0.0210

0.0339
0.0177
0.0987
0.0618
0.0846

Table 15: Bias scores between reference and target concepts in the medical and educational domains,
computed using B IAS L ENS on Gemma 2 9B. For each target concept, the highest bias score is
highlighted in mid blue and the second highest in light blue .
Potential Biases in Medical Domain
Target Concepts
vs. Reference Concepts

illness

pain

cancer

surgery

mental
illness

male vs female
rich vs poor
white vs black
public insurance vs private
native vs non-native

0.0733
0.1109
0.0583
0.0047
0.0675

0.0907
0.1073
0.1025
0.0233
0.1158

0.1186
0.0501
0.0764
0.0098
0.0844

0.1119
0.0133
0.0062
0.0033
0.0101

0.0227
0.2377
0.1618
0.0233
0.1360

Potential Biases in Educational Domain
Target Concepts
vs. Reference Concepts

math

science

gifted
program

college

remedial
class

male vs female
rich vs poor
white vs black
native vs ESL
low-SES vs high-SES

0.0483
0.1434
0.0306
0.0120
0.0127

0.0650
0.1086
0.0172
0.0900
0.0961

0.0342
0.2300
0.0008
0.0244
0.0344

0.0218
0.1243
0.0285
0.0776
0.0307

0.0017
0.1996
0.0164
0.2572
0.0320

26

Table 17: Bias scores between reference and target concepts in the medical and educational domains,
computed using B IAS L ENS on Llama 3.1 8B. For each target concept, the highest bias score is
highlighted in mid blue and the second highest in light blue .
Potential Biases in Medical Domain
Target Concepts
vs. Reference Concepts

illness

pain

cancer

surgery

mental
illness

male vs female
rich vs poor
white vs black
public insurance vs private
native vs non-native

0.0039
0.0195
0.0039
0.0117
0.0039

0.0000
0.0078
0.0078
0.0117
0.0039

0.0039
0.0430
0.0078
0.0117
0.0117

0.0039
0.0469
0.0039
0.0039
0.0156

0.0039
0.0273
0.0000
0.0078
0.0078

Potential Biases in Educational Domain
Target Concepts
vs. Reference Concepts

math

science

gifted
program

college

remedial
class

male vs female
rich vs poor
white vs black
native vs ESL
low-SES vs high-SES

0.0195
0.0000
0.0000
0.0430
0.0117

0.0234
0.0078
0.0000
0.0391
0.0078

0.0000
0.0039
0.0039
0.0156
0.0078

0.0078
0.0039
0.0039
0.0039
0.0039

0.0078
0.0078
0.0000
0.0156
0.0000

27

NeurIPS Paper Checklist
1. Claims
Question: Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the
paper’s contributions and scope?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The abstract and introduction clearly state the paper’s goal—to evaluate bias
in LLMs without using test sets—and summarize the proposed method (B IAS L ENS ), its
motivation, and results. See Abstract and Section 1.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the abstract and introduction do not include the claims
made in the paper.
• The abstract and/or introduction should clearly state the claims made, including the
contributions made in the paper and important assumptions and limitations. A No or
NA answer to this question will not be perceived well by the reviewers.
• The claims made should match theoretical and experimental results, and reflect how
much the results can be expected to generalize to other settings.
• It is fine to include aspirational goals as motivation as long as it is clear that these goals
are not attained by the paper.
2. Limitations
Question: Does the paper discuss the limitations of the work performed by the authors?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Appendix A discusses B IAS L ENS ’s limitations.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper has no limitation while the answer No means that
the paper has limitations, but those are not discussed in the paper.
• The authors are encouraged to create a separate "Limitations" section in their paper.
• The paper should point out any strong assumptions and how robust the results are to
violations of these assumptions (e.g., independence assumptions, noiseless settings,
model well-specification, asymptotic approximations only holding locally). The authors
should reflect on how these assumptions might be violated in practice and what the
implications would be.
• The authors should reflect on the scope of the claims made, e.g., if the approach was
only tested on a few datasets or with a few runs. In general, empirical results often
depend on implicit assumptions, which should be articulated.
• The authors should reflect on the factors that influence the performance of the approach.
For example, a facial recognition algorithm may perform poorly when image resolution
is low or images are taken in low lighting. Or a speech-to-text system might not be
used reliably to provide closed captions for online lectures because it fails to handle
technical jargon.
• The authors should discuss the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithms
and how they scale with dataset size.
• If applicable, the authors should discuss possible limitations of their approach to
address problems of privacy and fairness.
• While the authors might fear that complete honesty about limitations might be used by
reviewers as grounds for rejection, a worse outcome might be that reviewers discover
limitations that aren’t acknowledged in the paper. The authors should use their best
judgment and recognize that individual actions in favor of transparency play an important role in developing norms that preserve the integrity of the community. Reviewers
will be specifically instructed to not penalize honesty concerning limitations.
3. Theory assumptions and proofs
Question: For each theoretical result, does the paper provide the full set of assumptions and
a complete (and correct) proof?
28

Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper does not present any formal theorems or proofs.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include theoretical results.
• All the theorems, formulas, and proofs in the paper should be numbered and crossreferenced.
• All assumptions should be clearly stated or referenced in the statement of any theorems.
• The proofs can either appear in the main paper or the supplemental material, but if
they appear in the supplemental material, the authors are encouraged to provide a short
proof sketch to provide intuition.
• Inversely, any informal proof provided in the core of the paper should be complemented
by formal proofs provided in appendix or supplemental material.
• Theorems and Lemmas that the proof relies upon should be properly referenced.
4. Experimental result reproducibility
Question: Does the paper fully disclose all the information needed to reproduce the main experimental results of the paper to the extent that it affects the main claims and/or conclusions
of the paper (regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not)?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Appendix B provides extensive details on B IAS L ENS settings. Appendix C
details model and SAE settings, baselines, datasets and evaluation metrics in the experiments.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• If the paper includes experiments, a No answer to this question will not be perceived
well by the reviewers: Making the paper reproducible is important, regardless of
whether the code and data are provided or not.
• If the contribution is a dataset and/or model, the authors should describe the steps taken
to make their results reproducible or verifiable.
• Depending on the contribution, reproducibility can be accomplished in various ways.
For example, if the contribution is a novel architecture, describing the architecture fully
might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may
be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with the same
dataset, or provide access to the model. In general. releasing code and data is often
one good way to accomplish this, but reproducibility can also be provided via detailed
instructions for how to replicate the results, access to a hosted model (e.g., in the case
of a large language model), releasing of a model checkpoint, or other means that are
appropriate to the research performed.
• While NeurIPS does not require releasing code, the conference does require all submissions to provide some reasonable avenue for reproducibility, which may depend on the
nature of the contribution. For example
(a) If the contribution is primarily a new algorithm, the paper should make it clear how
to reproduce that algorithm.
(b) If the contribution is primarily a new model architecture, the paper should describe
the architecture clearly and fully.
(c) If the contribution is a new model (e.g., a large language model), then there should
either be a way to access this model for reproducing the results or a way to reproduce
the model (e.g., with an open-source dataset or instructions for how to construct
the dataset).
(d) We recognize that reproducibility may be tricky in some cases, in which case
authors are welcome to describe the particular way they provide for reproducibility.
In the case of closed-source models, it may be that access to the model is limited in
some way (e.g., to registered users), but it should be possible for other researchers
to have some path to reproducing or verifying the results.
5. Open access to data and code
29

Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instructions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental
material?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Code and data are available at the provided GitHub repository linked in the
Abstract.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.
• Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https://nips.cc/
public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
benchmark).
• The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https:
//nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.
• The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.
• At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
versions (if applicable).
• Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.
6. Experimental setting/details
Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyperparameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
results?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Appendix B and C.1 covers model configuration, number of probe samples,
training hyperparameters, and all other necessary settings.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The experimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.
• The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
material.
7. Experiment statistical significance
Question: Does the paper report error bars suitably and correctly defined or other appropriate
information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: For intrinsic behavioral metrics, the paper reports p-values from SEAT and
perplexity-based tests, and explains that only results with p < 0.05 are included for correlation computation (Section 4.1 and Appendix D).
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confidence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
the main claims of the paper.
30

• The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for
example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall
run with given experimental conditions).
• The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula,
call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.)
• The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors).
• It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error
of the mean.
• It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should
preferably report a 2-sigma error bar than state that they have a 96% CI, if the hypothesis
of Normality of errors is not verified.
• For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or
figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative
error rates).
• If error bars are reported in tables or plots, The authors should explain in the text how
they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text.
8. Experiments compute resources
Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the computer resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce
the experiments?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Appendix C mentions that all experiments are conducted on two NVIDIA
RTX A6000 GPUs.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, intrinsic cluster,
or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage.
• The paper should provide the amount of compute required for each of the individual
experimental runs as well as estimate the total compute.
• The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute
than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that
didn’t make it into the paper).
9. Code of ethics
Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the
NeurIPS Code of Ethics https://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The work does not violate the NeurIPS Code of Ethics. No personally
identifiable data or unethical evaluation is used.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
• If the authors answer No, they should explain the special circumstances that require a
deviation from the Code of Ethics.
• The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consideration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction).
10. Broader impacts
Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative
societal impacts of the work performed?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Abstract and Section 1 outlines the method’s benefit (bias discovery without
labeled data). Appendix A reveals the risks.
Guidelines:
31

• The answer NA means that there is no societal impact of the work performed.
• If the authors answer NA or No, they should explain why their work has no societal
impact or why the paper does not address societal impact.
• Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses
(e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations
(e.g., deployment of technologies that could make decisions that unfairly impact specific
groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations.
• The conference expects that many papers will be foundational research and not tied
to particular applications, let alone deployments. However, if there is a direct path to
any negative applications, the authors should point it out. For example, it is legitimate
to point out that an improvement in the quality of generative models could be used to
generate deepfakes for disinformation. On the other hand, it is not needed to point out
that a generic algorithm for optimizing neural networks could enable people to train
models that generate Deepfakes faster.
• The authors should consider possible harms that could arise when the technology is
being used as intended and functioning correctly, harms that could arise when the
technology is being used as intended but gives incorrect results, and harms following
from (intentional or unintentional) misuse of the technology.
• If there are negative societal impacts, the authors could also discuss possible mitigation
strategies (e.g., gated release of models, providing defenses in addition to attacks,
mechanisms for monitoring misuse, mechanisms to monitor how a system learns from
feedback over time, improving the efficiency and accessibility of ML).
11. Safeguards
Question: Does the paper describe safeguards that have been put in place for responsible
release of data or models that have a high risk for misuse (e.g., pretrained language models,
image generators, or scraped datasets)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: No new model or dataset is released that presents risk for misuse.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper poses no such risks.
• Released models that have a high risk for misuse or dual-use should be released with
necessary safeguards to allow for controlled use of the model, for example by requiring
that users adhere to usage guidelines or restrictions to access the model or implementing
safety filters.
• Datasets that have been scraped from the Internet could pose safety risks. The authors
should describe how they avoided releasing unsafe images.
• We recognize that providing effective safeguards is challenging, and many papers do
not require this, but we encourage authors to take this into account and make a best
faith effort.
12. Licenses for existing assets
Question: Are the creators or original owners of assets (e.g., code, data, models), used in
the paper, properly credited and are the license and terms of use explicitly mentioned and
properly respected?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: All datasets and models used (e.g., WinoBias, Yelp, IMDB, HuggingFace
LLMs) are properly cited in the main text and Appendix C.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not use existing assets.
• The authors should cite the original paper that produced the code package or dataset.
• The authors should state which version of the asset is used and, if possible, include a
URL.
• The name of the license (e.g., CC-BY 4.0) should be included for each asset.
32

• For scraped data from a particular source (e.g., website), the copyright and terms of
service of that source should be provided.
• If assets are released, the license, copyright information, and terms of use in the
package should be provided. For popular datasets, paperswithcode.com/datasets
has curated licenses for some datasets. Their licensing guide can help determine the
license of a dataset.
• For existing datasets that are re-packaged, both the original license and the license of
the derived asset (if it has changed) should be provided.
• If this information is not available online, the authors are encouraged to reach out to
the asset’s creators.
13. New assets
Question: Are new assets introduced in the paper well documented and is the documentation
provided alongside the assets?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The prompt templates and probing datasets are released in the GitHub repository with documentation.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not release new assets.
• Researchers should communicate the details of the dataset/code/model as part of their
submissions via structured templates. This includes details about training, license,
limitations, etc.
• The paper should discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose
asset is used.
• At submission time, remember to anonymize your assets (if applicable). You can either
create an anonymized URL or include an anonymized zip file.
14. Crowdsourcing and research with human subjects
Question: For crowdsourcing experiments and research with human subjects, does the paper
include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable, as
well as details about compensation (if any)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: No human subjects or crowdsourced data were involved.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Including this information in the supplemental material is fine, but if the main contribution of the paper involves human subjects, then as much detail as possible should be
included in the main paper.
• According to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, workers involved in data collection, curation,
or other labor should be paid at least the minimum wage in the country of the data
collector.
15. Institutional review board (IRB) approvals or equivalent for research with human
subjects
Question: Does the paper describe potential risks incurred by study participants, whether
such risks were disclosed to the subjects, and whether Institutional Review Board (IRB)
approvals (or an equivalent approval/review based on the requirements of your country or
institution) were obtained?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: No human-subject research was conducted.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
33

• Depending on the country in which research is conducted, IRB approval (or equivalent)
may be required for any human subjects research. If you obtained IRB approval, you
should clearly state this in the paper.
• We recognize that the procedures for this may vary significantly between institutions
and locations, and we expect authors to adhere to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics and the
guidelines for their institution.
• For initial submissions, do not include any information that would break anonymity (if
applicable), such as the institution conducting the review.
16. Declaration of LLM usage
Question: Does the paper describe the usage of LLMs if it is an important, original, or
non-standard component of the core methods in this research? Note that if the LLM is used
only for writing, editing, or formatting purposes and does not impact the core methodology,
scientific rigorousness, or originality of the research, declaration is not required.
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: LLMs (GPT-4o) are used to synthesize probe data and prompts, clearly
described in Appendix B.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the core method development in this research does not
involve LLMs as any important, original, or non-standard components.
• Please refer to our LLM policy (https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2025/LLM)
for what should or should not be described.

34

