SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating
Social Reasoning in Large Language Models
Zixiang Xu1 , Yanbo Wang1 , Yue Huang2 , Jiayi Ye1 , Haomin Zhuang2 , Zirui Song1 , Lang
Gao1 , Chenxi Wang1 , Zhaorun Chen3 , Yujun Zhou2 , Sixian Li4 , Wang Pan5 , Yue Zhao6 ,
Jieyu Zhao6 , Xiangliang Zhang2 and Xiuying Chen1
1

arXiv:2505.23713v1 [cs.CL] 29 May 2025

3

Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence (MBZUAI), 2 University of Notre Dame,
University of Chicago, 4 University of Michigan, 5 Microsoft, 6 University of Southern California

Abstract: Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly applied to socially grounded tasks, such as online
community moderation, media content analysis, and social reasoning games. Success in these contexts depends
on a model’s social reasoning ability—the capacity to interpret social contexts, infer others’ mental states,
and assess the truthfulness of presented information. However, there is currently no systematic evaluation
framework that comprehensively assesses the social reasoning capabilities of LLMs. Existing efforts often
oversimplify real-world scenarios and consist of tasks that are too basic to challenge advanced models. To
address this gap, we introduce SocialMaze, a new benchmark specifically designed to evaluate social reasoning.
SocialMaze systematically incorporates three core challenges: deep reasoning, dynamic interaction, and information uncertainty. It provides six diverse tasks across three key settings—social reasoning games, daily-life
interactions, and digital community platforms. Both automated and human validation are used to ensure data
quality. Our evaluation reveals several key insights: models vary substantially in their ability to handle dynamic
interactions and integrate temporally evolving information; models with strong chain-of-thought reasoning
perform better on tasks requiring deeper inference beyond surface-level cues; and model reasoning degrades
significantly under uncertainty. Furthermore, we show that targeted fine-tuning on curated reasoning examples
can greatly improve model performance in complex social scenarios. To facilitate model evaluation, our dataset
is publicly available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/MBZUAI/SocialMaze .

1. Introduction
LLMs demonstrate significant capabilities across various domains, such as scientific discovery [1, 2, 3]
and medical applications [4, 5]. Most recently, they have been increasingly applied to socially
grounded tasks, such as online community moderation [6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11], media content analysis
[12, 13, 14, 15], and social reasoning games [16, 17]. The success of LLMs in these applications
often hinges on their social reasoning abilities—the capacity to understand the social context, infer
others’ mental states, and make appropriate judgments based on this understanding.
While existing benchmarks effectively evaluate the general capabilities of LLMs [18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31], benchmarks specifically designed to assess social reasoning abilities
face significant limitations: 1) reliance on static scenarios lacking dynamic interaction [32, 33, 34, 35]
, 2) presentation of overly sanitized information devoid of the noise, bias, or deception common in real
social environments [21, 36, 37, 38] , and 3) tasks too simple to capture the deeper cognitive aspects
of social inference[39, 40, 41]. A few examples, SocialIQA [32] primarily assess commonsense
reasoning within simplified, predefined social contexts, testing basic understanding rather than
complex, interactive inference. Similarly, Theory-of-Mind (ToM) benchmarks [42] often evaluate
mental state inference based on static narratives and typically lack deceptive elements or informational
uncertainty. Beyond benchmarks, some recent work has applied LLMs to strategic games such as
Diplomacy [43] and deduction games like Avalon and Werewolf [17, 44, 45, 46]. While these
approaches attempt to place LLMs in dynamic environments, their evaluation typically emphasizes

Corresponding author(s): xiuying.chen@mbzuai.ac.ae (Xiuying Chen)

Layered Social Interaction Graphs

Initialization

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Social Reasoning Games
You aren’t the Criminal

You are the Criminal

Find the Spy:
From beans

Timelin
e

Natural Language Input

Hidden Role Deduction:

From leaves

Daily Life Interactions

Rating Estimation from Text:

I’m not satisfied with this

Social Graph Analysis:

Social relationship query

Digital Community Platforms
Review Decision Prediction:
Paper Information

Deep Reasoning
Dynamic Interaction
Information Uncertainty

Reviewer

Rebuttal

User Profile Inference:
What age group is this user
most likely to be in?

Description of Graphs
You are participating
in a social deduction
game with a total of
6 players ... In each
round, every player
will make one
statement about
another player...
After considering the
statements from
each round, provide
your judgment...

Q1: Vertex-centric Query

Round 1 statements:
A: B is not the
criminal.
C: D is not the
criminal.
...

Q2: Graph-level Query

Round 2 statements:
A: C is the criminal.
B: A is not the
criminal.
...

What should
my role be?

Who is the
Criminal？

Figure 1: Overview of the SocialMaze Benchmark. All tasks are built upon (a) Layered Social Interaction
Graphs, a time-aware modeling framework for social networks. Based on this template, we instantiate (b)
6 task types, covering social reasoning games, daily life interactions, and digital community platforms. (c)
illustrates one specific example of Hidden Role Deducution, including description of graphs along with both
vertex-centric and graph-level queries.

task outcomes—whether the model completes the task or outperforms competitors—rather than
assessing whether the model genuinely engages in correct and coherent social reasoning. Success in
such tasks does not necessarily indicate that the model understands the underlying social logic or
reasoning process.
To address these limitations and enable a more holistic evaluation, we argue that the assessment of
LLM social reasoning should explicitly incorporate three core aspects, which are key features of social
reasoning tasks:
Deep Reasoning: Effective reasoning in social environments often requires going beyond surface-level
information and engaging in complex cognitive processes. These include inferring others’ latent
mental states (such as intentions, beliefs, and motivations) [47, 48, 49, 50], analyzing complex causal
relationships between actions and outcomes, exploring counterfactual possibilities, and engaging in
strategic thinking or mental simulation to anticipate future scenarios and plan accordingly [42, 51, 52,
53]. Dynamic Interaction: Real-world social contexts are characterized by iterative, interdependent
exchanges. This demands that models track the evolving context across multiple turns and dynamically
adapt their reasoning and actions based on prior interactions and anticipated responses [54, 55,
56, 57, 58]. Failure to do so leads to static or contextually inappropriate behavior. Information
Uncertainty: Social information landscapes are inherently noisy, with credibility varying greatly.
They often contain misinformation, subjective biases, and intentional deception [59, 60, 61, 62, 63].
This necessitates that models critically evaluate source reliability, filter misleading signals, and make
robust inferences under conditions of incomplete or conflicting information.
Based on these three principles, we present SocialMaze, a novel benchmark designed to reflect
the challenges posed by all three dimensions, as shown in Figure 1. It consists of six diverse tasks
spanning three categories: Social Reasoning Games, Daily Life Interactions, and Digital Community
Platforms. Each task intentionally varies the demands along the three challenge dimensions. Our

2

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

experiments with SocialMaze reveal several key insights into the capabilities of LLMs: Models with
stronger chain-of-thought reasoning perform better on tasks that require deeper inference. We
also observe that dynamic interaction affects model performance in varied ways across tasks, and
information uncertainty significantly hinders reasoning. Moreover, reasoning agents and workflows
[64, 65, 66] offer limited gains in these social reasoning challenges, while targeted fine-tuning on
curated reasoning examples leads to substantial performance improvements.
Our contributions are threefold: 1) We identify deep reasoning, interaction dynamics, and information
uncertainty as three core dimensions for evaluating social reasoning in LLMs, capturing critical challenges found in real-world social cognition. 2) Based on these dimensions, we construct SocialMaze,
a benchmark dataset comprising six tasks across three real-world-inspired scenarios (social games,
daily life interactions, and digital platforms), covering a wide range of reasoning types and difficulty
levels. 3) Our experiments provide rich insights into LLM social reasoning: we identify key limitations
in current models and highlight promising directions for future research, showing that techniques
such as targeted fine-tuning can substantially improve performance.

2. Problem Formulation
We present a graph-based formalization of SocialMaze, where social entities and their evolving
interactions are modeled as layered graphs.
Modeling Social Entities and Interactions as Graph Structures. We use graph structures to formally
represent the participants and interactions within a social scenario. Let 𝒮 = {𝑠1 , 𝑠2 , ..., 𝑠𝑛 } be the set
of social members involved in a given setting, where each 𝑠𝑖 represents a distinct individual, such as
a game player, a forum user, or a reviewer in a peer-review process. These social members form the
vertex set 𝒱 of a graph 𝐺 = (𝒱, ℰ), with 𝒱 serving as an abstract representation of the social members
𝒮. Social interactions between members are represented as edges in the graph. Since interactions
are time-dependent, we define a separate edge set ℰ𝑡 for each interaction round 𝑡. This leads to a
sequence of time-specific graphs 𝐺𝑡 = (𝒱, ℰ𝑡 ), where an edge (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ ℰ𝑡 indicates that members 𝑢
and 𝑣 interacted during round 𝑡. The nature of the edges (directed or undirected) reflects the type of
interaction. For example, directed edges may represent one-way actions (e.g., sending a message),
while undirected edges may represent mutual interactions (e.g., a conversation or vote).
Temporal Dynamics as Layered Graphs. Social interactions are inherently dynamic and typically
unfold over multiple rounds. To capture this temporal dimension, we represent the entire interaction
process as a layered graph 𝒢 = (𝐺1 , 𝐺2 , ..., 𝐺𝑇 ), where 𝑇 denotes the total number of interaction
rounds. Each layer 𝐺𝑡 = (𝒱, ℰ𝑡 ) captures the state of social members and their relationships during
round 𝑡. Importantly, all layers share the same vertex set 𝒱, reflecting a consistent group of participants
throughout the interaction. However, the edge sets ℰ𝑡 vary across layers to reflect the evolving nature
of relationships over time. In SocialMaze, LLMs receive natural language descriptions that encapsulate
the information from these layered graphs, rather than raw graph structures. This design choice
is intentional, aiming to mimic how humans comprehend social scenarios through language-based
narratives.
Query Categorization. Based on the layered graph representation, we classify the queries posed
within SocialMaze tasks into three distinct types, each targeting a different level of understanding of
the graph structure: Vertex-centric Query (𝒬𝑣 (𝑣𝑖 )): This type of query probes the model’s understanding of individual social members. Given a specific vertex 𝑣𝑖 ∈ 𝒱 (representing social member
𝑠𝑖 ), the task is to infer an attribute associated with 𝑣𝑖 . Edge-centric Query (𝒬𝑒 (𝑣𝑖 , 𝑣𝑗 )): Edge-centric
queries assess the model’s comprehension of the relationships between social members. Given two
vertices 𝑣𝑖 , 𝑣𝑗 ∈ 𝒱, the task is to determine the nature of their relationship, as represented by the edges

3

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Table 1: Overview of SocialMaze task categories and key characteristics. Tasks vary along three
key dimensions: the level of Deep Reasoning, the degree of Dynamic Interaction, and the extent of
Information Uncertainty, each categorized as High or Low.
Deep
Dynamic Information Number of
Reasoning Interaction Uncertainty Instances

Scenario

Task Category

Social Reasoning
Games

Hidden Role Deduction
Find the Spy

High
Low

High
High

High
Low

20,000
6,000

Daily Life
Interactions

Rating Estimation from Text
Social Graph Analysis

Low
High

Low
Low

High
Low

6,000
20,000

Digital Community Review Decision Prediction
Platforms
User Profile Inference

Low
Low

High
Low

Low
High

12,000
6,000

connecting them. Graph-level Query (𝒬𝐺 (𝒢)): Graph-level queries require the model to synthesize
information from the entire layered graph 𝒢 to derive a holistic understanding of the social scenario.
These queries demand a comprehensive assessment of the overall interaction dynamics.

3. SocialMaze
Building on the layered social interaction graph framework, we introduce SocialMaze, a benchmark
designed to operationalize the core challenges of social reasoning—Dynamic Interaction, Information
Uncertainty, and Deep Reasoning. The benchmark covers three representative social contexts: Social
Reasoning Games, Daily Life Interactions, and Digital Community Platforms. These settings comprise
six major task categories, each carefully designed to vary along the key dimensions, enabling systematic
evaluation of LLMs under different social conditions. Table 1 summarizes the tasks by required
reasoning depth, degree of interaction dynamics, and level of information uncertainty. A detailed
comparison between SocialMaze and prior benchmarks is provided in Appendix A.
3.1. Task 1: Hidden Role Deduction
This task simplifies the core mechanics of Blood on the Clocktower [67] into a reasoning-only format.
Unlike traditional interaction-based gameplay, all player statements are rule-generated. The model
acts as a reasoner, analyzing all available information to logically infer each player’s role.
Task Rules. The game features four roles: Investigators, Criminal, Rumormongers, and Lunatics.
Investigators always tell the truth. The Criminal can choose to lie or tell the truth. Rumormongers
believe they are Investigators, but their statements are randomly true or false. Lunatics believe they
are the Criminal. The role each player sees may not reflect their true identity—Rumormongers are
shown the role of Investigator, and Lunatics are shown the role of Criminal. The game consists of
𝑛 players, and the model participates by taking the perspective of Player 1 (𝑠1 ):—meaning it only
observes what that player would see and say during the 𝑇 rounds. In each round, every player selects
another player and makes a public statement, such as “Player 𝑣 says Player 𝑢 is (not) the criminal.”
After observing all interactions, the model is tasked with answering two key questions: identifying
the true Criminal (𝒬𝐺 ), and inferring its own actual role in the game (𝒬𝑣 (𝑣𝑖 )). The introduction of
Rumormongers and Lunatics significantly increases information uncertainty and makes the reasoning
process more challenging. The dataset includes four types of tasks: Original task, Rumormonger task,
Lunatic task, and Full task. Details are provided in Appendix B.

4

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Design Rationale. This task challenges large language models along three critical dimensions of
social reasoning. First, the game unfolds over multiple rounds, requiring the model to track the
temporal evolution of information, interpret changing relationships among players, and maintain
consistent judgments across rounds—posing a challenge of Dynamic Interaction. Second, due to the
presence of roles such as the Criminal, Rumormonger, and Lunatic—who may lie or provide misleading
information—the environment is highly uncertain. The model must determine which statements
are trustworthy and filter out deceptive cues, thereby grappling with information uncertainty. Most
importantly, the model must reason not only about others’ roles but also about its own true identity,
which may differ from the one initially assigned. Addressing this requires strong Deep Reasoning
capabilities, including resolving conflicts, managing uncertainty that extends to self-perception, and
dynamically updating internal beliefs to approach the ground truth.
Data Generation and Quality Assurance. All player statements are automatically generated based
on a set of predefined rules. Investigators begin by selecting a target they find suspicious, using a
strategy function informed by all interactions up to the current round. They are always truthful
in their statements. Rumormongers follow the same target selection logic as Investigators, but the
truthfulness of their statements is random, making their input unreliable. In contrast, Criminals and
Lunatics adopt a different strategy for choosing targets and deliberately introduce uncertainty by
making deceptive statements with a certain probability, aiming to mislead others and conceal their
true roles. To ensure each scenario is logically solvable, we design a search algorithm that verifies
whether a unique solution exists to identify both the true Criminal and the LLM player’s actual role.
Additionally, the full reasoning chain leading to the solution is preserved and distilled into clear
natural language, providing high-quality, curated examples of social reasoning that can be leveraged
for targeted fine-tuning of language models. See Appendix B for details.
3.2. Task 2: Find the Spy
This task adapts the classic word-based social deduction game Who Is The Spy [17] to evaluate the
LLM’s ability to identify subtle deviations in communication within a group context characterized by
high interaction but relatively low information uncertainty.
Task Rules. The game involves 𝑛 players. Among them, 𝑛 − 1 players (Civilians) receive the same
secret word, while one player (the Spy) receives a different but related word. Over 𝑇 rounds, each
player provides a description of their word. The LLM is evaluated from the perspective of Player
1 (𝑠1 ): it knows the word assigned to 𝑠1 , but does not know whether 𝑠1 is a Civilian or the Spy. It
does not generate any player descriptions. Instead, after observing all 𝑇 rounds of player-generated
descriptions, the LLM must infer which player received the different word. This constitutes a graphlevel query (𝒬𝐺 ). Detailed rules are available in Appendix C.
Design Rationale. As shown in Table 1, Find the Spy exemplifies High Dynamic Interaction. The
multi-round format necessitates tracking clues revealed incrementally by all players over time. Conversely, Information Uncertainty is designed to be Low. Since players aim to avoid suspicion, they are
incentivized to provide truthful descriptions of their assigned word, thereby significantly reducing the
element of strategic deception.
Data Generation and Quality Assurance. For each game instance, we first set the parameters 𝑛
(number of players) and 𝑇 (number of rounds), then randomly selected a related word pair from
a curated word bank, followed by random role assignment (one Spy and 𝑛 − 1 Civilians). We then
used a variety of LLMs to generate player descriptions for each of the 𝑇 rounds, simulating diverse
communication styles. Prompt designs were crafted to encourage varied perspectives and expression
strategies across rounds. To ensure quality and solvability, instances underwent human evaluation by

5

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

15 computer science graduate students. An instance was considered valid if a majority (>70%) of
evaluators could uniquely identify the Spy based on the descriptions. 91% of the evaluated instances
met this criterion, verifying their suitability for the benchmark.
3.3. Task 3: Rating Estimation from Text
Task Rules. This task aims to evaluate the ability of LLMs to predict a product’s 1-to-5 star rating
based on 𝑛 textual reviews, which may include genuine positive or negative user comments as well
as promotional reviews written by shills. We collect two types of data: reviews generated by LLMs
simulating different user types, and real user reviews scraped from platforms such as Amazon, the
Google Play Store, and Taobao. The final rating prediction task follows a structure where information
flows from multiple user nodes to a central product node, constituting a vertex-centric query focused
on the product itself (𝒬𝑣 (product)). Detailed task rules can be found in Appendix D.
Design Rationale. The task deliberately introduces a high level of information uncertainty. In the LLMgenerated data, this is reflected through the inclusion of simulated “shill” users to mimic deceptive
review behavior. In the real-world data, uncertainty arises from the inherent noise, subjectivity,
and potential bias present in genuine user reviews. This setting requires the model to evaluate the
credibility of information flowing from user nodes (i.e., reviewers) to the product node.
Data Generation and Quality Assurance. The LLM-based data generation process begins by sampling
product attributes from a manually curated repository consisting of 1,000 attribute terms. A normal
distribution of ratings is then constructed based on the true star rating, ensuring that the mean
aligns with the reference score. Next, 𝑛 LLMs are randomly selected from a diverse model pool and
probabilistically assigned roles (either normal users or shills) along with distinct personas, which
guide the generation of textual reviews consistent with their assigned identities. For real-world data,
we directly scrape product attributes and 𝑛 user reviews from platforms such as Amazon, the Google
Play Store, and Taobao. An instance was considered solvable if a majority (>70%) of evaluators
could correctly infer the true rating based solely on the textual reviews. Among the LLM-generated
samples, 83% satisfied this criterion, confirming their validity for evaluating model reasoning.
3.4. Other Tasks
Task4: Social Graph Analysis: This task aims to evaluate the ability of LLMs to analyze relationships
within a social group. Given a description of the social network graph and pairwise relationship labels
indicating whether two individuals are friends or have a bad relationship—with friendship being
transitive—the model is required to perform reasoning such as: determining whether two individuals
are friends, identifying the friend group of a given node, calculating the total number of distinct friend
groups, and counting all relationships within the network. Detailed task rules, the algorithmic data
generation process that ensures logical consistency and solvability, and quality assurance procedures
are provided in Appendix E.
Task 5: Review Decision Prediction: This task aims to evaluate the ability of LLMs to predict the
final acceptance outcome (Accepted/Rejected) of a research paper as they gradually receive more
information throughout the academic review process. The model is required to make a prediction
at each of three interaction stages, with the available context incrementally expanding: in the first
stage, only the initial paper information is provided; in the second stage, reviewer comments (with
numerical scores removed) are added and the model must reason over both the initial content and
the reviews; in the third stage, the full author rebuttal is introduced, completing the review context.
This task simulates how opinions evolve over time in real academic peer review. Detailed task rules,
the data generation process using real-world OpenReview data, and quality assurance procedures are

6

Original Task (Self-Role)
Original Task (Criminal)

100

Lunatic Task (Self-Role)
Lunatic Task (Criminal)

Rumormonger Task (Self-Role)
Rumormonger Task (Criminal)

Full Task (Self-Role)
Full Task (Criminal)

100

80

80

60

60

40

40
-8B

a-3.1

Llam

0B

-7
a-3.3

Llam

2B

-2.5-7

Qwen

i
o-min

GPT-4

o

GPT-4

ini

o3-m

QwQ

-32B

-R1

Seek

Deep

o1

Pro

i-2.5-

n
Gemi

Criminal Identification Acc. (%)

Self-Role Identification Acc. (%)

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Figure 2: Model performance in Hidden Role Deduction across four task variants with increasing information
uncertainty. Accuracy is shown after 3 rounds.

provided in Appendix F.
Task 6: User Profile Inference: This task aims to evaluate the ability of LLMs to infer demographic
attributes (age group and gender) based on user-generated textual reviews. Specifically, we construct
a large number of users with known demographic attributes using LLMs, and generate their reviews for
various products they have purchased. The inference tasks are twofold: (1) predicting the dominant
user profile associated with the reviews of a specific product, and (2) identifying the profile of an
individual user based on their reviews across multiple products. Detailed task rules, the LLM-based
data generation method used to embed subtle demographic cues, and human validation results are
provided in Appendix G.

4. Discussion
Rating

Find the

Estimation
Spy
We conducted extensive experiments on the SocialMaze
GPT-4o
benchmark to evaluate the social reasoning capabilities of
QwQ-32B
Llama-3.3-70B
various LLMs. Specifically, we tested 5 leading proprietary
DeepSeek-R1
Gemini-2.5-Pro
LLMs and 6 open-weight LLMs across our tasks, coverSocial 100% 75% 50% 25% 0%
ing diverse aspects of social reasoning. In addition, we
Graph
Hidden
Analysis
Role
evaluated 6 different workflow strategies to assess their
Deduction
impact on model performance. A subset of the results is
visualized in Figure 3. We observe that different social
reasoning tasks impose distinct demands on the models.
Review Decision
User Profile
For example, tasks like Hidden Role Deduction, which rePrediction
Inference
quire Deep Reasoning, are best tackled by models such as
Figure 3: Performance comparison of seDeepSeek-R1 and Gemini-2.5-Pro. In contrast, GPT-4o lected LLMs on SocialMaze tasks, highlightexcels in tasks like Review Decision Prediction, where nu- ing different model strengths.
anced understanding of reviewer attitudes is critical. We
conducted extensive case studies and report full results and settings in Appendix J and Appendix H.
4.1. The Impact of Deep Reasoning Requirements
In certain complex scenarios, effective social reasoning often requires going beyond surface-level
cues—a process we refer to as Deep Reasoning. Our benchmark explicitly differentiates tasks along
this dimension (Table 1), categorizing them into those that demand Deep Reasoning (Hidden Role
Deduction and Social Graph Analysis) and those that are primarily solvable through more superficial.
To assess the impact of reasoning depth, we compare two model categories: Long CoT models (e.g.,
o1, DeepSeek-R1), which generate detailed, step-by-step reasoning chains, and the remaining Short
CoT models, which follow shorter reasoning paths—both using identical prompts.

7

Long CoT (Accuracy)

Short CoT (Accuracy)

Output Length Ratio

Output Length Ratio (Long/Short)

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Long CoT models achieve substantially
higher accuracy on tasks requiring Deep Rea60
12
soning. As shown in the line plot in Figure 4,
40
8
the performance advantage of Long CoT models
20
4
is particularly pronounced for Deep Reasoning
0
0
Graph
Role
Find User Profile Rating
Review
tasks, i.e., Graph analysis and role deduction.
Analysis Deduction the Spy Inference Estimation Decision
Figure 4: Performance comparison of Long CoT and While employing longer reasoning chains also
Short CoT models. The line plot shows average accu- yields modest improvements on shallow reasonracy; the bar plot shows the output length ratio (Long
ing tasks, the accuracy gap between the two
CoT / Short CoT). Orange bars indicate tasks with high model types is significantly narrower. This indeep reasoning demand, purple bars indicate low deep
dicates that the explicit, step-by-step reasoning
reasoning demand.
characteristic of Long CoT models is especially
beneficial for handling Deep Reasoning intricacies (e.g., inferring latent beliefs, analyzing relations);
manual inspection confirmed this reasoning is sound and coherent in correct predictions, suggesting
genuine inference capabilities.

Accuracy (%)

80

16

The improved performance of Long CoT models comes with a substantial computational cost.
The bar plot in Figure 4 illustrates this cost by presenting the ratio of average number of output tokens
between Long CoT and Short CoT models. For Deep Reasoning tasks, outputs from Long CoT models
contain nearly eight times more tokens on average, reflecting a much more extensive externalization
of intermediate reasoning steps, hypothesis testing, and evidence evaluation. In contrast, for shallow
reasoning tasks, the difference in output token count is less pronounced, mirroring smaller accuracy
gains and suggesting that these tasks can often be solved without lengthy, explicit reasoning chains.
4.2. The Impact of Dynamic Interaction
In certain scenarios, social interactions unfold sequentially, requiring models to integrate and reason
over information accumulated across multiple turns or stages. We analyze how model performance
evolves in tasks characterized by high Dynamic Interaction, revealing distinct patterns depending
on the nature and structure of the accumulating information. Overall, model accuracy generally
improves with quantitatively increasing interaction, but the trajectory of performance evolution
and sensitivity to dynamic information vary significantly across different tasks and models.
Table 2: Criminal identification accuracy across
This contrast is particularly evident in two tasks:
rounds in the 6-player Hidden Role Deduction task.
In Hidden Role Deduction, we track model acModels vary in leveraging Dynamic Interaction.
curacy in identifying the Criminal within the
Full Task setting involving six players (Table 2).
Model
Round 1 Round 2 Round 3
Accuracy tends to increase as more rounds
Llama-3.3-70B
37.6%
46.7%
46.5%
of interaction are observed, reflecting the exQwen-2.5-72B
31.3%
42.6%
50.3%
pected benefit of accumulating contextual evGPT-4o-mini
33.5%
38.4%
46.5%
idence over time. However, the slope of imGPT-4o
39.5%
53.3%
53.5%
provement varies substantially across models,
o3-mini
45.8%
51.2%
59.6%
suggesting differing abilities to process and inQwQ-32B
41.4%
63.5%
78.4%
tegrate newly revealed statements within the
DeepSeek-R1
44.3%
72.3%
80.4%
o1
42.5%
67.5%
76.6%
game’s evolving context. Some models are more
Gemini-2.5-Pro 43.3%
74.3%
87.6%
effective than others in leveraging additional
rounds to refine their hypotheses. One notable
insight is the large performance gap between Rumormonger and Lunatic. This is because once an
Investigator correctly checks the Lunatic as “not the Criminal,” it provides a strong signal that helps
the Lunatic realize their true role—making awakening easier than for the Rumormonger.

8

Investigator (Self-Role)
Investigator (Criminal)

100
80
60
40
20
0

-8B

a-3.1

Llam

Criminal (Self-Role)
Criminal (Criminal)

ini
2B
-70B
-2.5-7 GPT-4o-m
a-3.3
Qwen

Llam

o

GPT-4

Rumormonger (Self-Role)
Rumormonger (Criminal)

ini

o3-m

QwQ

-32B

Lunatic (Self-Role)
Lunatic (Criminal)

-R1

Seek

Deep

o1

Pro

i-2.5-

n
Gemi

100
80
60
40
20
0

Criminal Identification Acc. (%)

Self-Role Identification Acc. (%)

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Figure 5: Performance in the Full task of Hidden Role Deduction, by model-assigned role. Models show
reduced accuracy—especially in self-role identification—when assigned roles involving distorted self-perception
(Rumormonger, Lunatic).

By contrast, Review Decision Prediction presents a more complex and non-linear performance trajectory
across the stages of the peer review process, as shown in Table 3. Initial paper information yields
low accuracy, reviews trigger a major performance boost, but the final rebuttal stage often
causes a drop in accuracy. We observe that this counterintuitive decline is frequently driven by
the model being swayed by the author’s sincere and well-articulated defense, which may not align
with the actual judgment rendered by human reviewers or area chairs. In other words, the model
is “convinced” by the rebuttal, even when it fails to change the ultimate decision. A more detailed
analysis of this phenomenon is provided in Appendix J.
4.3. The Impact of Information Uncertainty
A defining characteristic of complex social environments is the prevalence of unreliable information. We evaluate the impact of Information
Uncertainty using the Hidden Role Deduction
task by systematically introducing actors who
generate distinct forms of unreliable information: intentional deception (Criminal) and noise
stemming from flawed self-perception (Rumormonger and Lunatic).

Table 3: Review Decision Prediction accuracy across
sequential stages. Accuracy improves with reviewer
comments but often drops after incorporating the
rebuttal.
Model

Info.

Reviews

Rebuttal

Llama-3.1-8B
Llama-3.3-70B
Qwen-2.5-72B
Phi-4
GPT-4o-mini
GPT-4o
o3-mini
QWQ-32B
DeepSeek-R1
o1
Gemini-2.5-Pro

37.0%
26.2%
23.6%
23.5%
38.8%
55.3%
40.2%
49.8%
50.2%
52.2%
47.4%

79.6%
87.4%
82.2%
77.6%
85.2%
86.2%
86.4%
83.8%
88.0%
88.6%
87.6%

62.0%
72.2%
65.8%
61.4%
85.0%
90.2%
78.6%
79.6%
82.0%
78.2%
77.6%

Increased information uncertainty significantly elevates the difficulty of social reasoning for LLMs. Figure 2 illustrates this across
four task configurations where uncertainty levels are quantitatively controlled by varying the
number of unreliable actors (Rumormongers,
Lunatics). Progressing from the baseline Original setting through scenarios introducing these noise sources to the complex Full setting, both the
accuracy in identifying the Criminal (line plot) and the model’s own role (bar plot) demonstrate a
marked decline. This degradation underscores the substantial challenge posed by noise and deception.
Reasoning becomes particularly challenging when the model’s own perceived role or information
source is compromised. Figure 5 delves into the Full task configuration, analyzing final accuracy
based on the specific role assigned to the LLM. Models exhibit considerably lower accuracy, especially
in identifying their own role (bars), when assigned as a Rumormonger or Lunatic compared to being
an Investigator or Criminal. This suggests a significant difficulty in reconciling internal beliefs (e.g.,
“I think I am an Investigator/Criminal”) with conflicting external evidence or the unreliable nature of
one’s own generated information.

9

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Table 4: Performance on Hidden Role Deduction before and after fine-tuning. Crim.: Criminal prediction
accuracy; Self: self-role prediction accuracy; Both: both predictions correct. Fine-tuning with SFT
and DPO significantly improves performance on both models. Percent improvements over the Base
model for Both are shown in parentheses.
Base

Model
Crim.

Self

SFT
Both Crim.

Self

DPO
Both

Crim.

Self

Both

LLaMA-3.1-8B 33.0% 8.4% 2.0% 37.0% 15.2% 13.4% (+11.4%) 35.4% 11.0% 9.8% (+7.8%)
Phi-4
31.2% 13.4% 8.2% 38.2% 22.6% 19.8% (+11.6%) 37.8% 17.4% 15.2% (+7.0%)

These experiments also highlight critical differences between model capabilities. Existing Short CoT
models demonstrate severe limitations in handling complex scenarios with high information
uncertainty, often failing to perform reliably in the Rumormonger and Full task settings (Figure 2). In
contrast, Long CoT models, while still impacted, exhibit significantly better resilience to uncertainty.
Furthermore, the challenge of self-assessment under uncertainty exposes a stark gap: Short CoT
models are almost entirely unable to deduce their true identity when assigned as a Rumormonger
or Lunatic (Figure 5), suggesting a profound lack of capacity for self-doubt and meta-reasoning
necessary to overcome compromised initial information.
4.4. Enhancing Social Reasoning Capabilities
To explore strategies for improving social reasoning in LLMs, we conduct focused experiments on
the Hidden Role Deduction task. This task is not only uniquely representative—combining Deep
Reasoning, Dynamic Interaction, and Information Uncertainty—but also well-suited for generating
diverse reasoning examples at scale, providing valuable supervision for model learning.
Table 5: Performance of LLM agents and workflows
Reasoning agents and workflows offer limon the Hidden Role Deduction task. All workflows
ited gains for social reasoning. We first assess
use the better-performing model between Phi-4
whether reasoning agents and workflows effecand GPT-4o-mini as the base model.
tive in task decomposition and planning can
improve performance on Hidden Role Deduction.
As shown in Table 5, various agentic implemenMethod
Crim. Self
Both
tations yield only marginal improvements over
QwQ
63.8% 63.2% 59.4%
base models. This indicates that current workDeepSeek-R1
87.6% 88.6% 85.6%
flow strategies are not enough to handle the
LLM-Debate [68] 42.0% 13.2% 12.2%
complexity and uncertainty involved in social
Self-refine [69] 33.2% 11.2% 10.4%
reasoning tasks.
ADAS [64]
36.6% 8.4% 6.0%
AFlow [65]

40.2% 12.4% 11.6%

Fine-tuning on curated reasoning traces subMaAS [66]
44.4% 15.0% 13.8%
stantially improves performance. RecognizDyFlow [70]
43.2% 17.6% 16.8%
ing the need for models to internalize complex
reasoning strategies, we further explore instruction-based fine-tuning using high-quality examples
from our dataset. Table 4 summarizes results from applying Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) [71] and
Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) [72] to Llama-3.1-8B and Phi-4. Both approaches substantially
improve accuracy on the Hidden Role Deduction task, and also yield slight but consistent gains on other
benchmark tasks, thereby demonstrating the effectiveness and generalizability of targeted fine-tuning
on curated reasoning examples.
These findings highlight a fundamental limitation of existing LLM agents in socially complex reasoning
tasks. In contrast, our targeted fine-tuning approach yields substantial improvements, particularly

10

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

because it leverages high-quality reasoning traces specifically crafted for social contexts. This suggests
that equipping models with domain-relevant reasoning strategies through fine-tuning may be a more
fruitful path toward enhancing their capabilities in this domain.

5. Conclusion
We introduced SocialMaze, a benchmark designed to rigorously evaluate the social reasoning capabilities of LLMs by capturing the challenges of deep reasoning, dynamic interaction, and information
uncertainty. Experiments across six diverse tasks reveal notable weaknesses in current models, particularly in handling evolving contexts and reasoning under uncertainty. Targeted fine-tuning on curated
reasoning examples significantly improves performance, highlighting the value of domain-specific
adaptation. As future work, we plan to further expand SocialMaze by collecting more real-world
data and aim to enrich the benchmark with new social scenarios and task types. We believe our
work will provide valuable resources and insights to the research community, helping to advance the
development of LLMs with stronger social reasoning capabilities.

References
[1] Taicheng Guo, Bozhao Nan, Zhenwen Liang, Zhichun Guo, Nitesh Chawla, Olaf Wiest, Xiangliang
Zhang, et al. What can large language models do in chemistry? a comprehensive benchmark
on eight tasks. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:59662–59688, 2023.
[2] Xiuying Chen, Tairan Wang, Taicheng Guo, Kehan Guo, Juexiao Zhou, Haoyang Li, Zirui Song,
Xin Gao, and Xiangliang Zhang. Unveiling the power of language models in chemical research
question answering. Communications Chemistry, 8(1):4, 2025.
[3] Yunfei Xie, Ce Zhou, Lang Gao, Juncheng Wu, Xianhang Li, Hong-Yu Zhou, Sheng Liu, Lei Xing,
James Zou, Cihang Xie, and Yuyin Zhou. Medtrinity-25m: A large-scale multimodal dataset
with multigranular annotations for medicine, 2025.
[4] Juexiao Zhou, Xiaonan He, Liyuan Sun, Jiannan Xu, Xiuying Chen, Yuetan Chu, Longxi Zhou,
Xingyu Liao, Bin Zhang, Shawn Afvari, et al. Pre-trained multimodal large language model
enhances dermatological diagnosis using skingpt-4. Nature Communications, 15(1):5649, 2024.
[5] Xiuying Chen, Tairan Wang, Juexiao Zhou, Zirui Song, Xin Gao, and Xiangliang Zhang. Evaluating and mitigating bias in ai-based medical text generation. Nature Computational Science,
pages 1–9, 2025.
[6] Mahi Kolla, Siddharth Salunkhe, Eshwar Chandrasekharan, and Koustuv Saha. Llm-mod: Can
large language models assist content moderation? In Extended Abstracts of the CHI Conference
on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pages 1–8, 2024.
[7] Wenjun Zeng, Yuchi Liu, Ryan Mullins, Ludovic Peran, Joe Fernandez, Hamza Harkous, Karthik
Narasimhan, Drew Proud, Piyush Kumar, Bhaktipriya Radharapu, et al. Shieldgemma: Generative ai content moderation based on gemma. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21772, 2024.
[8] Wei Qiao, Tushar Dogra, Otilia Stretcu, Yu-Han Lyu, Tiantian Fang, Dongjin Kwon, Chun-Ta Lu,
Enming Luo, Yuan Wang, Chih-Chun Chia, et al. Scaling up llm reviews for google ads content
moderation. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data
Mining, pages 1174–1175, 2024.

11

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

[9] Sarah Masud, Sahajpreet Singh, Viktor Hangya, Alexander Fraser, and Tanmoy Chakraborty.
Hate personified: Investigating the role of llms in content moderation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.02657, 2024.
[10] Wei Liu, Chenxi Wang, YiFei Wang, Zihao Xie, Rennai Qiu, Yufan Dang, Zhuoyun Du, Weize
Chen, Cheng Yang, and Chen Qian. Autonomous agents for collaborative task under information
asymmetry. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems,
2024.
[11] Zhaorun Chen, Zhuokai Zhao, Hongyin Luo, Huaxiu Yao, Bo Li, and Jiawei Zhou. Halc:
object hallucination reduction via adaptive focal-contrast decoding. In Proceedings of the 41st
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 7824–7846, 2024.
[12] Robert Chew, John Bollenbacher, Michael Wenger, Jessica Speer, and Annice Kim. Llm-assisted
content analysis: Using large language models to support deductive coding. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.14924, 2023.
[13] Yuhan Liu, Zirui Song, Xiaoqing Zhang, Xiuying Chen, and Rui Yan. From a tiny slip to a giant
leap: An llm-based simulation for fake news evolution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.19064, 2024.
[14] Chenxi Wang, Zongfang Liu, Dequan Yang, and Xiuying Chen. Decoding echo chambers: LLMpowered simulations revealing polarization in social networks. In Owen Rambow, Leo Wanner,
Marianna Apidianaki, Hend Al-Khalifa, Barbara Di Eugenio, and Steven Schockaert, editors,
Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Computational Linguistics, pages 3913–3923,
Abu Dhabi, UAE, January 2025. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[15] Zhaorun Chen, Francesco Pinto, Minzhou Pan, and Bo Li. Safewatch: An efficient safety-policy
following video guardrail model with transparent explanations. In The Thirteenth International
Conference on Learning Representations.
[16] Huao Li, Yu Quan Chong, Simon Stepputtis, Joseph Campbell, Dana Hughes, Michael Lewis,
and Katia Sycara. Theory of mind for multi-agent collaboration via large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.10701, 2023.
[17] Chentian Wei, Jiewei Chen, and Jinzhu Xu. Exploring large language models for word games:
Who is the spy? arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.15235, 2025.
[18] Wei-Lin Chiang, Lianmin Zheng, Ying Sheng, Anastasios Nikolas Angelopoulos, Tianle Li,
Dacheng Li, Banghua Zhu, Hao Zhang, Michael Jordan, Joseph E Gonzalez, et al. Chatbot
arena: An open platform for evaluating llms by human preference. In Forty-first International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
[19] Yue Huang, Chujie Gao, Siyuan Wu, Haoran Wang, Xiangqi Wang, Yujun Zhou, Yanbo Wang,
Jiayi Ye, Jiawen Shi, Qihui Zhang, et al. On the trustworthiness of generative foundation models:
Guideline, assessment, and perspective. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14296, 2025.
[20] Yanbo Wang, Jiayi Ye, Siyuan Wu, Chujie Gao, Yue Huang, Xiuying Chen, Yue Zhao, and
Xiangliang Zhang. Trusteval: A dynamic evaluation toolkit on trustworthiness of generative
foundation models. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (System Demonstrations), pages 70–84, 2025.
[21] Michal Kosinski. Evaluating large language models in theory of mind tasks. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences, 121(45):e2405460121, 2024.

12

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

[22] Zhaorun Chen, Yichao Du, Zichen Wen, Yiyang Zhou, Chenhang Cui, Zhenzhen Weng, Haoqin
Tu, Chaoqi Wang, Zhengwei Tong, Qinglan Huang, et al. Mj-bench: Is your multimodal reward
model really a good judge for text-to-image generation? arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.04842, 2024.
[23] Zixiang Xu, Yanbo Wang, Yue Huang, Xiuying Chen, Jieyu Zhao, Meng Jiang, and Xiangliang
Zhang. Cross-lingual pitfalls: Automatic probing cross-lingual weakness of multilingual large
language models. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (ACL). Association for Computational Linguistics, 2025.
[24] Zirui Song, Bin Yan, Yuhan Liu, Miao Fang, Mingzhe Li, Rui Yan, and Xiuying Chen. Injecting
domain-specific knowledge into large language models: a comprehensive survey. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.10708, 2025.
[25] Gao Chujie, Siyuan Wu, Yue Huang, Dongping Chen, Qihui Zhang, Zhengyan Fu, Yao Wan,
Lichao Sun, and Xiangliang Zhang. Honestllm: Toward an honest and helpful large language
model. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:7213–7255, 2024.
[26] Yu Liu, Lang Gao, Mingxin Yang, Yu Xie, Ping Chen, Xiaojin Zhang, and Wei Chen. Vuldetectbench: Evaluating the deep capability of vulnerability detection with large language models,
2024.
[27] Yue Huang, Siyuan Wu, Chujie Gao, Dongping Chen, Qihui Zhang, Yao Wan, Tianyi Zhou,
Chaowei Xiao, Jianfeng Gao, Lichao Sun, et al. Datagen: Unified synthetic dataset generation via
large language models. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations,
2024.
[28] Lang Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, Preslav Nakov, and Xiuying Chen. Shaping the safety boundaries:
Understanding and defending against jailbreaks in large language models, 2024.
[29] Haoran Luo, E Haihong, Yuhao Yang, Gengxian Zhou, Yikai Guo, Tianyu Yao, Zichen Tang,
Xueyuan Lin, and Kaiyang Wan. Nqe: N-ary query embedding for complex query answering
over hyper-relational knowledge graphs. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, volume 37, pages 4543–4551, 2023.
[30] Ganghua Wang, Zhaorun Chen, Bo Li, and Haifeng Xu. Cer-eval: Certifiable and cost-efficient
evaluation framework for llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.03814, 2025.
[31] Zixiang Xu, Yanbo Wang, Chenxi Wang, Lang Gao, Zirui Song, Yue Huang, Zhaorun Chen,
Xiangliang Zhang, and Xiuying Chen. Gta: Graph theory agent and benchmark for algorithmic
graph reasoning with llms, 2025.
[32] Maarten Sap, Hannah Rashkin, Derek Chen, Ronan LeBras, and Yejin Choi. Socialiqa: Commonsense reasoning about social interactions. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.09728, 2019.
[33] Maarten Sap, Ronan Le Bras, Emily Allaway, Chandra Bhagavatula, Nicholas Lourie, Hannah
Rashkin, Brendan Roof, Noah A Smith, and Yejin Choi. Atomic: An atlas of machine commonsense
for if-then reasoning. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, volume 33,
pages 3027–3035, 2019.
[34] Yasumasa Onoe, Michael JQ Zhang, Eunsol Choi, and Greg Durrett. Creak: A dataset for
commonsense reasoning over entity knowledge. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.01653, 2021.
[35] Dorottya Demszky, Dana Movshovitz-Attias, Jeongwoo Ko, Alan Cowen, Gaurav Nemade, and
Sujith Ravi. Goemotions: A dataset of fine-grained emotions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.00547,
2020.

13

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

[36] Bill Yuchen Lin, Wangchunshu Zhou, Ming Shen, Pei Zhou, Chandra Bhagavatula, Yejin Choi, and
Xiang Ren. CommonGen: A constrained text generation challenge for generative commonsense
reasoning. In Trevor Cohn, Yulan He, and Yang Liu, editors, Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020, pages 1823–1840, Online, November 2020. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
[37] Natalie Shapira, Mosh Levy, Seyed Hossein Alavi, Xuhui Zhou, Yejin Choi, Yoav Goldberg,
Maarten Sap, and Vered Shwartz. Clever hans or neural theory of mind? stress testing social
reasoning in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14763, 2023.
[38] Aida Nematzadeh, Kaylee Burns, Erin Grant, Alison Gopnik, and Thomas L Griffiths. Evaluating
theory of mind in question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.09352, 2018.
[39] Maxwell Forbes, Jena D Hwang, Vered Shwartz, Maarten Sap, and Yejin Choi. Social chemistry
101: Learning to reason about social and moral norms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.00620, 2020.
[40] Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andrew Critch, Jerry Li, Dawn Song, and Jacob
Steinhardt. Aligning ai with shared human values. Proceedings of the International Conference
on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2021.
[41] Utkarsh Tiwari, Aryan Seth, Adi Mukherjee, Kaavya Mer, Dhruv Kumar, et al. Debatebench:
A challenging long context reasoning benchmark for large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.06279, 2025.
[42] Kanishk Gandhi, Jan-Philipp Fränken, Tobias Gerstenberg, and Noah Goodman. Understanding
social reasoning in language models with language models. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 36:13518–13529, 2023.
[43] Anton Bakhtin, David J Wu, Adam Lerer, Jonathan Gray, Athul Paul Jacob, Gabriele Farina,
Alexander H Miller, and Noam Brown. Mastering the game of no-press diplomacy via humanregularized reinforcement learning and planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.05492, 2022.
[44] Jonathan Light, Min Cai, Sheng Shen, and Ziniu Hu. Avalonbench: Evaluating llms playing the
game of avalon. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.05036, 2023.
[45] Suma Bailis, Jane Friedhoff, and Feiyang Chen. Werewolf arena: A case study in llm evaluation
via social deduction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.13943, 2024.
[46] Yuzhuang Xu, Shuo Wang, Peng Li, Fuwen Luo, Xiaolong Wang, Weidong Liu, and Yang Liu.
Exploring large language models for communication games: An empirical study on werewolf.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.04658, 2023.
[47] David Premack and Guy Woodruff. Does the chimpanzee have a theory of mind? Behavioral
and brain sciences, 1(4):515–526, 1978.
[48] Henry M Wellman. Making minds: How theory of mind develops. Oxford University Press, 2014.
[49] Ziva Kunda. Social cognition: Making sense of people. MIT press, 1999.
[50] Chris D Frith and Uta Frith. Social cognition in humans. Current biology, 17(16):R724–R732,
2007.
[51] Neal J Roese. Counterfactual thinking. Psychological bulletin, 121(1):133, 1997.

14

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

[52] Yinya Huang, Ruixin Hong, Hongming Zhang, Wei Shao, Zhicheng Yang, Dong Yu, Changshui
Zhang, Xiaodan Liang, and Linqi Song. Clomo: Counterfactual logical modification with large
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17438, 2023.
[53] Yadong Zhang, Shaoguang Mao, Tao Ge, Xun Wang, Adrian de Wynter, Yan Xia, Wenshan Wu,
Ting Song, Man Lan, and Furu Wei. Llm as a mastermind: A survey of strategic reasoning with
large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.01230, 2024.
[54] Mustafa Emirbayer and Ann Mische. What is agency? American journal of sociology, 103(4):962–
1023, 1998.
[55] Alex Pentland. Social physics: How good ideas spread-the lessons from a new science. Penguin,
2014.
[56] Yoav Shoham and Kevin Leyton-Brown. Multiagent systems: Algorithmic, game-theoretic, and
logical foundations. Cambridge University Press, 2008.
[57] Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and
Michael S Bernstein. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In Proceedings
of the 36th annual acm symposium on user interface software and technology, pages 1–22, 2023.
[58] Zhaorun Chen, Mintong Kang, and Bo Li. Shieldagent: Shielding agents via verifiable safety
policy reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.22738, 2025.
[59] Han Wang, Erik Skau, Hamid Krim, and Guido Cervone. Fusing heterogeneous data: A case
for remote sensing and social media. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,
56(12):6956–6968, 2018.
[60] Timothy Baldwin, Paul Cook, Marco Lui, Andrew MacKinlay, and Li Wang. How noisy social
media text, how diffrnt social media sources? In Proceedings of the sixth international joint
conference on natural language processing, pages 356–364, 2013.
[61] Rika Preiser, Reinette Biggs, Alta De Vos, and Carl Folke. Social-ecological systems as complex
adaptive systems. Ecology and Society, 23(4), 2018.
[62] David MJ Lazer, Matthew A Baum, Yochai Benkler, Adam J Berinsky, Kelly M Greenhill, Filippo
Menczer, Miriam J Metzger, Brendan Nyhan, Gordon Pennycook, David Rothschild, et al. The
science of fake news. Science, 359(6380):1094–1096, 2018.
[63] Zhaorun Chen, Zhen Xiang, Chaowei Xiao, Dawn Song, and Bo Li. Agentpoison: Red-teaming
llm agents via poisoning memory or knowledge bases. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 37:130185–130213, 2024.
[64] Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, and Jeff Clune. Automated design of agentic systems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.08435, 2024.
[65] Jiayi Zhang, Jinyu Xiang, Zhaoyang Yu, Fengwei Teng, Xionghui Chen, Jiaqi Chen, Mingchen
Zhuge, Xin Cheng, Sirui Hong, Jinlin Wang, et al. Aflow: Automating agentic workflow
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10762, 2024.
[66] Guibin Zhang, Luyang Niu, Junfeng Fang, Kun Wang, Lei Bai, and Xiang Wang. Multi-agent
architecture search via agentic supernet. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.04180, 2025.
[67] Wikipedia contributors. Blood on the clocktower, 2024. Accessed: 2025-04-18.

15

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

[68] Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Joshua B Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch. Improving factuality and reasoning in language models through multiagent debate. In Forty-first International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2023.
[69] Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri
Alon, Nouha Dziri, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang, et al. Self-refine: Iterative refinement
with self-feedback. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:46534–46594, 2023.
[70] Yanbo Wang, Zixiang Xu, Yue Huang, Zirui Song, Lang Gao, Chenxi Wang, Xiangru Tang,
Yue Zhao, Arman Cohan, Xiangliang Zhang, and Xiuying Chen. Dyflow: Dynamic workflow
framework for agentic reasoning. 2025. Manuscript submitted to NeurIPS 2025.
[71] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin,
Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. Training language models to
follow instructions with human feedback. Advances in neural information processing systems,
35:27730–27744, 2022.
[72] Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and
Chelsea Finn. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:53728–53741, 2023.
[73] Nasrin Mostafazadeh, Aditya Kalyanpur, Lori Moon, David Buchanan, Lauren Berkowitz, Or Biran, and Jennifer Chu-Carroll. Glucose: Generalized and contextualized story explanations. In
The Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2020.
[74] Yonatan Bisk, Rowan Zellers, Jianfeng Gao, Yejin Choi, et al. Piqa: Reasoning about physical
commonsense in natural language. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence,
volume 34, pages 7432–7439, 2020.
[75] Rowan Zellers, Ari Holtzman, Yonatan Bisk, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi. Hellaswag: Can a
machine really finish your sentence? arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.07830, 2019.
[76] Michal Kosinski. Theory of mind may have spontaneously emerged in large language models.
PNAS, 120(13), 2023.
[77] Yue Huang, Yanbo Wang, Zixiang Xu, Chujie Gao, Siyuan Wu, Jiayi Ye, Xiuying Chen, Pin-Yu
Chen, and Xiangliang Zhang. Breaking focus: Contextual distraction curse in large language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.01609, 2025.
[78] Hyunwoo Kim, Melanie Sclar, Xuhui Zhou, Ronan Le Bras, Gunhee Kim, Yejin Choi, and Maarten
Sap. Fantom: A benchmark for stress-testing machine theory of mind in interactions. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.15421, 2023.
[79] Yang Xiao, WANG Jiashuo, Qiancheng Xu, Changhe Song, Chunpu Xu, Yi Cheng, Wenjie Li,
and Pengfei Liu. Tomvalley: Evaluating the theory of mind reasoning of llms in realistic social
context.
[80] David Tran, Alex Valtchanov, Keshav Ganapathy, Raymond Feng, Eric Slud, Micah Goldblum,
and Tom Goldstein. An open review of openreview: A critical analysis of the machine learning
conference review process. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.05137, 2020.
[81] Jaroslaw Szumega, Lamine Bougueroua, Blerina Gkotse, Pierre Jouvelot, and Federico Ravotti.
The open review-based (orb) dataset: Towards automatic assessment of scientific papers and
experiment proposals in high-energy physics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.04576, 2023.

16

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

[82] Noam Brown and Tuomas Sandholm.
365(6456):885–890, 2019.

Superhuman ai for multiplayer poker.

Science,

[83] Zirui Song, Jingpu Yang, Yuan Huang, Jonathan Tonglet, Zeyu Zhang, Tao Cheng, Meng Fang,
Iryna Gurevych, and Xiuying Chen. Geolocation with real human gameplay data: A large-scale
dataset and human-like reasoning framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.13759, 2025.
[84] Chenxi Wang, Tianle Gu, Zhongyu Wei, Lang Gao, Zirui Song, and Xiuying Chen. Word form
matters: Llms’ semantic reconstruction under typoglycemia, 2025.
[85] John X Morris, Eli Lifland, Jin Yong Yoo, Jake Grigsby, Di Jin, and Yanjun Qi. Textattack: A
framework for adversarial attacks, data augmentation, and adversarial training in nlp. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2005.05909, 2020.
[86] Lichao Sun, Yue Huang, Haoran Wang, Siyuan Wu, Qihui Zhang, Chujie Gao, Yixin Huang,
Wenhan Lyu, Yixuan Zhang, Xiner Li, et al. Trustllm: Trustworthiness in large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.05561, 3, 2024.
[87] Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark,
AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, et al. Gpt-4o system card. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276, 2024.
[88] OpenAI. Gpt-4o mini: Advancing cost-efficient intelligence. https://openai.com/index/
gpt-4o-mini-advancing-\cost-efficient-intelligence/, 2024.
[89] OpenAI. o3-mini. https://docsbot.ai/models/o3-mini, January 2025. AI model.
[90] Aaron Jaech, Adam Kalai, Adam Lerer, Adam Richardson, Ahmed El-Kishky, Aiden Low, Alec
Helyar, Aleksander Madry, Alex Beutel, Alex Carney, et al. Openai o1 system card. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.16720, 2024.
[91] Google DeepMind. Gemini 2.5 pro experimental. https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/
docs/models, March 2025. AI model.
[92] Marah Abdin, Jyoti Aneja, Harkirat Behl, Sébastien Bubeck, Ronen Eldan, Suriya Gunasekar,
Michael Harrison, Russell J. Hewett, Mojan Javaheripi, Piero Kauffmann, James R. Lee, Yin Tat
Lee, Yuanzhi Li, Weishung Liu, Caio C. T. Mendes, Anh Nguyen, Eric Price, Gustavo de Rosa,
Olli Saarikivi, Adil Salim, Shital Shah, Xin Wang, Rachel Ward, Yue Wu, Dingli Yu, Cyril Zhang,
and Yi Zhang. Phi-4 technical report, December 2024. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.08905.
[93] Meta. Llama 3.1-8b. https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B, 2024.
[94] Meta.

Llama

3.3-70b.

https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.

3-70B-Instruct, 2024.
[95] Qwen Team. Qwen2.5: A party of foundation models, September 2024.
[96] Qwen Team. Qwq-32b: Embracing the power of reinforcement learning, March 2025.
[97] Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu,
Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms
via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948, 2025.

17

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

A. Related Works
A.1. Static Social Reasoning Benchmarks
Early evaluations of social reasoning in language models largely focus on static, single-turn tasks
where models infer plausible answers based on brief, pre-written scenarios. These benchmarks
primarily test shallow forms of commonsense and moral reasoning without requiring interaction,
adaptation, or uncertainty handling. A classical example is SocialIQA [32], which assesses social
commonsense by posing questions about motivations and reactions in everyday situations. Similarly,
ATOMIC [33] provides a structured knowledge graph of causal social events, while CommonGen [36]
tests the ability to generate plausible sentences from object co-occurrence tuples in socially relevant
scenes.
Benchmarks like Social Chemistry [39] and ETHICS [40] target moral norms, asking models to
judge the appropriateness of actions, whereas GLUCOSE [73] emphasizes implicit causal reasoning in
narratives. Emotion understanding is covered by GoEmotions [35], while PIQA [74], HellaSwag [75],
and CREAK [34] assess commonsense or contextually grounded inference.
Recent work has shifted toward evaluating Theory of Mind (ToM)—the capacity to reason about others’
beliefs and intentions. Initial tests, such as those in [76], used classic false-belief stories to probe
emergent ToM in LLMs, though follow-up studies revealed artifacts and prompt sensitivity [37, 77].
More recent evaluations such as FANToM [78] and ToMValley [79] provide more rigorous multi-turn
belief-tracking scenarios. These benchmarks demonstrate that, while LLMs may succeed on simple
static ToM questions, they struggle with deeper or dynamic belief modeling, particularly under
information asymmetry or belief shifts over time.
Overall, while these static benchmarks have advanced our understanding of LLMs’ social reasoning
capabilities, they often lack three essential ingredients for real-world social cognition: dynamic
interaction, complex reasoning depth, and reasoning under uncertainty. Table 6 summarizes several
representative benchmarks discussed above, highlighting their focus, format, and limitations. These
gaps motivate the design of SocialMaze, which aims to capture the challenges of socially grounded
reasoning in more realistic and interactive settings.
Table 6: Representative Benchmarks for Social Reasoning in LLMs
Benchmark

Focus

Format

Key Findings

SocialIQA [32]

Commonsense QA Static narrative + MCQ GPT-3+/GPT-4 near human; tests
scripted social norms.

ToM Classic [76] False belief

Brief stories + Q&A

Early ToM claims challenged;
shortcut artifacts noted.

Clever Hans [37] ToM artifacts

Controlled stimuli

Performance drops without spurious cues; lacks robustness.

FANToM [78]

Interactive ToM

Multi-turn dialogue

GPT-4 and others fail under asymmetric info tracking.

ToMValley [79]

Dynamic ToM

Scenario chains + Q&A LLMs 11% below humans; weak
on mental state updates.

18

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

A.2. Dynamic Social Reasoning and Interaction Benchmarks
Another class of benchmarks focuses on dynamic settings where social reasoning occurs within interactive contexts. These tasks require models to engage with evolving information, track perspectives, and
reason about hidden roles, intentions, or potential deception. DebateBench [41] evaluates models’
reasoning across long-form argumentative dialogues. Studies of peer review processes using OpenReview data [80, 81] examine decision-making through multi-turn, text-based interaction without
relying solely on reviewer scores. Strategic games such as Diplomacy [43] and Poker [82], as well
as social deduction games like Avalon and Werewolf [44, 17, 45, 46, 83? ], provide natural settings
for reasoning under incomplete information and complex social dynamics. Multi-agent simulations
such as Generative Agents [57, 84? ] explore emergent social behavior, while robustness evaluations
like TextAttack [85], TRUST-LLM [86] investigate model behavior under uncertainty or adversarial
conditions.
While these benchmarks incorporate certain forms of interaction and complexity, most remain oriented
toward task completion or strategic decision-making. They often lack systematic modeling of social
context factors such as role motivations or deception. SocialMaze, by contrast, integrates interaction
and uncertainty within a structured framework, explicitly targeting complex social reasoning.

B. Hidden Role Deduction
This appendix provides the details for the Hidden Role Deduction task described in subsection 3.2.
1. Task Setup
The game involves 𝑛 players, denoted 𝑠1 , ..., 𝑠𝑛 . The LLM observes the game unfolding from the
perspective of Player 1 (𝑠1 ), receiving all interaction data and the initial role assignment given to
𝑠1 . Crucially, the LLM does not actively participate in the game simulation (i.e., does not
choose targets or make statements). Its task is solely post-hoc inference: analyzing the complete
interaction log (𝐺1 , ..., 𝐺𝑇 ) to deduce the answers to the specified queries. At the start, each player 𝑠𝑖
is randomly assigned a secret role. The LLM is informed of the role initially assigned to 𝑠1 ; however,
this assigned role may differ from 𝑠1 ’s actual role, especially if 𝑠1 is a Rumormonger or Lunatic. The
specific composition of roles depends on the Task Variant being used.
2. Roles and Behaviors
Simulated player behavior is guided by their assigned role and the game history 𝐺𝑡 up to round 𝑡.
The roles are defined as follows: The Investigator (I) aims to identify the Criminal. Based on the
game history 𝐺𝑡 , an Investigator uses an algorithmically defined function 𝐹𝐼 (𝐺𝑡 ) to select a target
player 𝑢. They then make a truthful statement reflecting their deduction about 𝑢’s status (Criminal
or not Criminal). The function 𝐹𝐼 (𝐺𝑡 ) heuristically assesses suspicion, selecting players with higher
probability if they have made contradictory statements or have been accused by others, while lowering
the probability for players cleared by multiple potentially reliable sources. The Criminal (C) seeks to
avoid identification and mislead others. They employ a strategic function 𝐹𝐶 (𝐺𝑡 ) to select a target
player 𝑢 and also determine a probability 𝑝𝑡 = 𝑃 (state 𝑢 is Criminal|𝐺𝑡 , role=C). The Criminal then
states “𝑢 is Criminal” with probability 𝑝𝑡 and “𝑢 is not Criminal” with probability 1 − 𝑝𝑡 . The function
𝐹𝐶 implements deceptive tactics, prioritizing targeting players who have accused the Criminal and
diverting suspicion onto others. The Rumormonger (R), although believing they are an Investigator
trying to identify the Criminal, unintentionally provides unreliable information, effectively injecting
noise. They are told they are an Investigator and use the Investigator logic function 𝐹𝐼 (𝐺𝑡 ) to select a
target player 𝑢. However, regardless of any internal assessment derived from 𝐹𝐼 (𝐺𝑡 ) or the actual
ground truth, the truthfulness of their final statement (“𝑢 is Criminal” or “𝑢 is not Criminal”) is entirely

19

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

random, possessing a 50% probability of aligning with the ground truth and a 50% probability of
contradicting it. Lastly, the Lunatic (L) believes they are the Criminal and aims to avoid identification
based on this false premise, while their actual nature is not Criminal. They are told they are the
Criminal and mimic the Criminal’s behavior by employing the same strategic function 𝐹𝐶 (𝐺𝑡 ) used by
the actual Criminal. Although their actions follow deceptive patterns, truthful statements made by
Investigators about the Lunatic will correctly identify them as ’not the Criminal’.
3. Interaction Rounds
The game simulation proceeds for a fixed 𝑇 rounds. In each round 𝑡 (from 1 to 𝑇 ), every player 𝑠𝑣
selects another player 𝑃𝑢 and makes a public statement of the form: “Player 𝑣 says Player 𝑢 is the
criminal” or “Player 𝑣 says Player 𝑢 is not the criminal.” All statements made in round 𝑡 are revealed
simultaneously to all players, and thus become available to the observing LLM, before round 𝑡 + 1
begins. Consequently, the complete history 𝐺𝑇 = (statements𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑑1 , ..., statements𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑑𝑇 ) is available
for the LLM’s final analysis.
4. Parameter Settings
The composition of roles is varied to create tasks of differing complexity, ensuring there is always
exactly one Criminal. The variants include: the Original Task (1 Criminal, 𝑛 − 1 Investigators);
the Rumormonger Task (1 Criminal, 𝑥 ≥ 1 Rumormongers, 𝑛 − 1 − 𝑥 Investigators); the Lunatic
Task (1 Criminal, 𝑦 ≥ 1 Lunatics, 𝑛 − 1 − 𝑦 Investigators); and the Full Task (1 Criminal, 𝑥 ≥ 0
Rumormongers, 𝑦 ≥ 0 Lunatics, 𝑛 − 1 − 𝑥 − 𝑦 Investigators, where 𝑥 + 𝑦 ≥ 1). Note on Experimental
Configuration: For the experiments presented in this paper, the game parameters were fixed at
𝑛 = 6 players. When Rumormongers and Lunatics were included (specifically in the Full Task variant
experiments), their counts were set to 𝑥 = 1 and 𝑦 = 1, respectively, alongside 1 Criminal and
𝑛 − 1 − 𝑥 − 𝑦 = 3 Investigators. The accompanying open-sourced dataset includes generated instances
for both 𝑛 = 6 and 𝑛 = 10. Furthermore, the open-sourced data generation code is flexible, allowing
users to configure 𝑛, 𝑚, 𝑥, and 𝑦 to create custom game scenarios.
5. Quality Control
The algorithmic generation includes verification via heuristic search, ensuring a unique, logically
derivable solution exists for both queries from 𝑃1 ’s perspective using only the interactions and rules.
The core verification logic, which checks all valid hypotheses, is outlined in algorithm 1.
Furthermore, to validate the models’ reasoning quality, we manually inspected 100 correct responses
each for several key models (DeepSeek-R1, QwQ-32B, Gemini-2.5-Pro, o1, and o3-mini). This analysis
confirmed that over 90% of these successful predictions were underpinned by reasoning processes
assessed as both rigorous and logically sound.

C. Find the Spy
This appendix provides the details for the Find the Spy task described in subsection 3.2.
1. Task Setup
The game involves 𝑛 players, denoted 𝑠1 , . . . , 𝑠𝑛 . The evaluated LLM adopts the persona of Player 1
(𝑠1 ) but acts as a passive observer. It receives all game information, including its own assigned word
and all player descriptions, from 𝑠1 ’s perspective but does not generate descriptions itself during the
evaluation process. The LLM’s sole task is to identify the Spy based on the observed interactions. For
word assignment, a pair of semantically related but distinct words (Word A, Word B, e.g., “Milk” and

20

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Algorithm 1 Solvability Verification from 𝑃1 ’s Perspective
Input: Interaction Log 𝑆, Player Set 𝒫 = {𝑃1 , . . . , 𝑃𝑛 }, Role Set ℛ = {𝐼, 𝐶, 𝑅, 𝐿}, Investigator Count
𝑁𝐼
Output: Unique Solution (𝐶 * , 𝑅1* ) ∈ 𝒫 × ℛ, or ∅ if not unique/no solution
𝒮𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑 ← ∅
◁ Set to store valid (Criminal, P1 Role) solution pairs
ℎ𝑦𝑝
foreach hypothesized role 𝑅1 ∈ ℛ for 𝑃1 do
𝒫𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑑 ← 𝒫 ∖ {𝑃1 }
◁ Initial candidates are all others
foreach subset 𝐼ℎ𝑦𝑝 ⊆ 𝒫𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑑 such that |𝐼ℎ𝑦𝑝 | = 𝑁𝐼 do
Let current hypothesis 𝐻 = (𝑅1ℎ𝑦𝑝 , 𝐼ℎ𝑦𝑝 )
if IsConsistent(𝑆, 𝐻) then
◁ Check if hypothesis contradicts any statement 𝐶𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑑 ← DeduceCriminal(𝑆, 𝐻)
𝑅1,𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑑 ← DeduceP1Role(𝑆, 𝐻)
if 𝐶𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑑 ̸= NULL and 𝑅1,𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑑 ̸= NULL then
𝒮𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑 ← 𝒮𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑 ∪ {(𝐶𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑑 , 𝑅1,𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑑 )}
◁ Add deduced solution
end
end
end
end
if |𝒮𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑 | = 1 then
return the single element in 𝒮𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑
◁ Unique solution found
end
else
return ∅
◁ Not unique or no consistent solution
end

“Soy Milk”) is selected from a predefined bank. One player is randomly designated as the Spy, while
the remaining 𝑛 − 1 players are Civilians. All Civilians receive Word A, and the Spy receives Word B.
Player 1 (the LLM’s persona) is informed of the word it received but is not explicitly told whether it is
Word A or Word B, nor is it told its role (Civilian or Spy).
2. Interaction Rounds
The game proceeds for 𝑇 rounds. In each round 𝑡 (from 1 to 𝑇 ), every player 𝑠𝑖 provides a textual
description of the word they possess. These descriptions are generated by LLMs, with each player 𝑠𝑖
being assigned a specific LLM generator (selected randomly and uniformly from a predefined pool:
GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4o, Llama-3.3-70B, Qwen-2.5-72B) for the entire game instance. The generation
prompts encourage the LLM simulating player 𝑠𝑖 to describe their word from different angles or aspects
in each round, avoiding simple repetition. Players are assumed to provide descriptions consistent
with the word they hold: Civilians describe Word A, and the Spy describes Word B. All descriptions
generated in round 𝑡 are made available to all players, including the LLM as 𝑠1 , before round 𝑡 + 1
begins. Thus, the complete history of descriptions from rounds 1 to 𝑇 is available at the end of the
game for the LLM’s analysis.
3. Parameter Settings
For all experimental evaluations using this task setup, the number of players 𝑛 was fixed at 4, and the
number of interaction rounds 𝑇 was fixed at 3.
4. Quality Control
To ensure generated instances are solvable yet challenging, they undergo a rigorous human validation process. Each potential game instance is reviewed by 15 evaluators, all holding at least an

21

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

undergraduate degree in Computer Science. An instance is deemed valid and solvable only if a clear
majority (more than 5 out of the 10 evaluators) agree that the collective descriptions provided by the
simulated players contain sufficient evidence to uniquely identify the Spy. This validation confirms
that the task’s difficulty stems from semantic subtlety and variations in description style, rather than
from a fundamental lack of necessary information. 91% of the instances subjected to this evaluation
met the validation threshold, affirming their suitability for inclusion in the benchmark.

D. Rating Estimation from Text
This appendix provides the details for the Rating Estimation from Text task described in subsection 3.3.
1. Task Setup
The primary objective for the LLM in this task is to estimate the most likely overall “true” star rating,
represented as an integer from 1 to 5, for a given product. This estimation must be based solely on the
textual content derived from multiple user reviews. For each task instance, the LLM receives specific
input: a set of attributes describing the product (such as type, category, key features, price range) and
a list containing 𝑛 individual textual user reviews for that product. Crucially, the original star ratings
(1-5 stars) that reviewers might have provided are explicitly omitted from the input. After processing
the product information and the 𝑛 textual reviews, the LLM must answer a vertex-centric query
(𝒬𝑣 (product)) phrased as: “Based on the provided reviews, what is the most likely overall star rating
for this product? Choose one: 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.” The expected output is a single integer, necessitating
the synthesis of information from multiple user interactions (reviews) all directed towards the product
entity.
2. Data Generation
The task utilizes review data generated through two distinct methods. The first method involves
LLM-Generated Reviews. Here, a product profile is selected, including its attributes and a designated
ground truth overall star rating. A number 𝑛 of simulated reviewers is determined, and each reviewer 𝑖
is assigned a role probabilistically, ensuring the majority are Normal Users (providing honest feedback)
while a small fraction are designated as Positive Shills or Negative Shills. Each reviewer also receives a
simple persona for stylistic variation and is assigned a randomly selected LLM from a predefined pool
(GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4o, Llama-3.3-70B, Qwen-2.5-72B) to simulate their response. The assigned LLM
then generates the review text for reviewer 𝑖, guided by the product attributes, the ground truth rating,
the reviewer’s assigned role (Normal/Shill), and their persona; Shills are prompted to generate biased
text accordingly. Finally, only the generated textual reviews are collected and prepared as input for
the evaluated LLM. The second method uses Real-World Reviews. In this scenario, product attributes
along with user reviews (both text and original ratings) are scraped from public e-commerce and app
platforms. For a selected product, 𝑛 reviews are sampled from the scraped collection. The textual
content of these 𝑛 sampled reviews is extracted, while the original star ratings are discarded. Only
the product attributes and the review texts are provided as input to the LLM. The ground truth for
these instances is typically derived from the average rating found on the source platform, which the
LLM is tasked to estimate.
3. Parameter Settings
Across all experiments presented for this task, the number of reviews (𝑛) provided per product
instance is consistently set to 8. The required output is always a single integer rating on the 1-to-5
star scale. The real-world task instances exclusively utilize product attributes and textual reviews
sourced from Amazon, the Google Play Store, and Taobao. For the LLM-generated instances, the
underlying product attributes and the initial ground truth star ratings are also sampled from this

22

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

same pool of real-world data derived from these platforms, providing a basis grounded in realistic
product scenarios.
4. Quality Control
As detailed in subsection 3.3, human evaluations were integral to ensuring data quality. These
were conducted by 15 graduate students. For the LLM-generated data (Scenario A), this evaluation
determined that 83% of the assessed instances were solvable, meaning the true rating could be
reasonably inferred from the text alone by more than half of the human evaluators. For the instances
derived from real-world data (Scenario B), solvability is inherently tied to the complexity and nature
of authentic customer feedback as it appears on platforms like Amazon, Google Play, and Taobao,
reflecting genuine information landscapes.

E. Social Graph Analysis
This appendix provides the details for the Social Graph Analysis task described in Section 3.4.
1. Setup
This task presents a stylized social network scenario involving a set of 𝑛 individuals. The core challenge
lies in understanding the structure of this network, where relationships between any two individuals
are strictly defined as either ’good’ or ’bad’. The LLM is provided with a complete description of
all pairwise relationships and must then analyze this information to answer queries about specific
relationships, individual connections, and the overall emergent group structure of the network, guided
by a set of simple logical axioms.
2. Relationship Axioms
Relationships between any two distinct individuals, say Person A and Person B, are binary (’good’ or
’bad’) and symmetric. These relationships are governed by specific logical rules: Axiom 1 dictates
the transitivity of good relationships, meaning if A and B have a ’good’ relationship, and B and C
also have a ’good’ relationship, then A and C must necessarily have a ’good’ relationship. Axiom 2
describes the implication of bad relationships, stating that if A and B have a ’bad’ relationship, and
A and C have a ’good’ relationship, then B and C are forced to have a ’bad’ relationship. It’s important
to note that from these axioms, if A and B share a ’bad’ relationship, and B and C also share a ’bad’
relationship, the nature of the relationship between A and C is not determined solely by these two
facts; it could be either good or bad depending on other connections within the network. However, the
algorithmic generation process always ensures a globally consistent and valid relationship structure.
3. Group Definition
Within this social structure, a ’group’ is formally defined as a maximal set of individuals where every
person within that set has a ’good’ relationship with every other person also belonging to that same
set. A key property of this structure is that every individual belongs to exactly one such group.
Consequently, based on the governing axioms and the generation method, the relationship between
any two individuals can be directly inferred from their group membership: if Person A and Person B
are members of the same group, they inherently have a ’good’ relationship; conversely, if they belong
to different groups, they must have a ’bad’ relationship.
4. Input Format
The LLM receives as input a comprehensive list composed of natural language statements that
explicitly specify the complete set of pairwise relationships as determined by the algorithmic
generation process. These statements clearly define the relationship status between every possible

23

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Algorithm 2 Social Graph Generation
Input: Difficulty level 𝑑 ∈ {easy, hard}
Output: Natural language instance
{︃ 𝐼
[8, 10], if 𝑑 = easy
Set number of individuals 𝑛 ∼
[14, 16], if 𝑑 = hard
Initialize graph 𝐺 = (𝑉, 𝐸), where |𝑉 | = 𝑛
Step 1: Generate spanning forest to define social groups
Randomly partition 𝑉 into 𝑚 ≥ 2 disjoint non-empty subsets {𝑉1 , 𝑉2 , . . . , 𝑉𝑚 }
foreach group 𝑉𝑖 do
good
good
Generate a spanning tree 𝑇𝑖 = (𝑉𝑖 , 𝐸𝑖 ) Add edges 𝐸𝑖
to 𝐸 // Intra-group "good"

relationships
end
Step 2: Add "bad" edges between groups
foreach pair of groups (𝑉𝑖 , 𝑉𝑗 ), 𝑖 ̸= 𝑗 do
Select a node pair (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝑉𝑖 × 𝑉𝑗 Add edge (𝑢, 𝑣) to 𝐸 bad ⊂ 𝐸 // Inter-group "bad"

relationship
end
Step 3: Convert graph structure to natural language
foreach edge (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝐸 do
if (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝐸 good then
Generate statement: "𝑢 and 𝑣 are good friends."
else if (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ 𝐸 bad then
Generate statement: "𝑢 and 𝑣 do not get along."
end
end
Aggregate all generated statements into input instance 𝐼
return 𝐼
pair of individuals within the scenario. Examples of such input statements include “Person N and
Person G have a good relationship” and “Person K and Person P have a bad relationship”. This list
provides a full and unambiguous description of the entire social graph structure.
5. LLM Queries
After processing the complete list of relationship statements provided as input, the LLM is required to
answer various types of queries designed to test its understanding of the network structure. These
queries include, for instance, Pairwise Relationship Queries (𝒬𝑒 (𝑣𝑖 , 𝑣𝑗 )), such as “Do Person N and
Person L have a good relationship?”, which typically requires checking the provided input directly and
responding with Yes/No. Other queries are Good Relationship Neighbor Queries (Vertex-centric),
like “Who has a good relationship with Person H?”, demanding the LLM to filter the input and list the
relevant names. Furthermore, Graph-level Queries (𝒬𝐺 ) probe the overall structure, asking questions
like “How many groups of people are there?” or “How many pairs of people have good relationships?”
or “How many pairs of people have bad relationships?”, all of which require synthesizing the pairwise
information to derive a global property and respond with an integer count.
6. Data Generation and Quality Assurance
Instances for this task are generated entirely algorithmically, without reliance on LLM generation,
ensuring consistency and verifiable ground truth. The process begins by setting the number of
individuals 𝑛, sampled from [8, 10] for ’easy’ instances and [14, 16] for ’hard’ instances. A complete

24

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

graph structure respecting the relationship axioms is then algorithmically constructed. First, a spanning
forest is created using only ’good’ relationship edges, thereby defining the distinct social groups (each
tree representing a group). Second, ’bad’ relationship edges are strategically added to connect every
pair of distinct groups (trees), ensuring all inter-group relations are ’bad’ and all intra-group relations
are ’good’. The complete set of generated relationship edges (’good’ edges defining the groups and
’bad’ edges connecting them) is then converted into natural language statements and presented to
the LLM as input. This generation methodology mathematically guarantees that for each instance,
a unique solution exists for all four query types and is logically derivable solely from the provided
statements and rules. The core generation logic is outlined in algorithm 2.

F. Review Decision Prediction
This appendix provides the details for the Review Decision Prediction task described in subsection 3.4.
1. Objective
The LLM’s goal in this task is to predict the final acceptance status (Accepted or Rejected) of a
research manuscript submitted to a conference, based solely on the sequence of provided peer review
communications.
2. Data Source and Scope
Data for this task is exclusively sourced from the official OpenReview API, encompassing submissions
to specific high-profile Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning conferences, namely NeurIPS
(covering the 2023 and 2024 cycles) and ICLR (covering the 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024
cycles). The rationale for selecting these particular venues stems primarily from their policy of
making the entire peer review process public. This transparency, which crucially includes making
detailed reviews and discussions for rejected manuscripts publicly available, is a practice not commonly
found in many other academic fields. It provides the essential data needed to construct a balanced
and realistic task dataset that accurately reflects both acceptance and rejection scenarios encountered
in academic publishing.
3. Input Structure
The LLM receives information pertaining to a single manuscript, presented in a structured sequence
that mirrors the typical progression of the peer review timeline. Initially, in Round 1, the LLM is
given the initial submission details: the manuscript’s original Title, its Abstract, and the authorprovided Keywords. Subsequently, in Round 2, the LLM receives the reviewer feedback, which
consists of the complete textual content of each review submitted by the assigned reviewers. It
is crucial to note the exclusion of all quantitative aspects from these reviews; numerical scores
(such as overall ratings, technical soundness, or novelty scores), reviewer confidence scores, explicit
recommendations (like Accept, Reject), and any other non-textual evaluation metrics are deliberately
removed. The input at this stage contains only the narrative comments written by the reviewers.
Finally, Round 3 provides information from the author-reviewer discussion phase, including the
full text of the authors’ rebuttal designed to address the initial reviewer comments, as well as any
subsequent comments or discussions exchanged between the authors and reviewers following
the rebuttal. The full manuscript text itself is intentionally omitted from the input provided to
the LLM. This decision is driven by two main factors: practical challenges related to processing
lengthy full papers consistently across numerous task instances, considering LLM input constraints
and computational costs, and more importantly, to align with the task’s core objective. This objective
focuses on evaluating the LLM’s ability to comprehend and synthesize the dynamics inherent in the
peer review dialogue—interpreting arguments, discerning attitudes, and understanding sentiments

25

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

expressed by reviewers and authors—rather than tasking it with performing an independent technical
re-evaluation of the manuscript’s content.
4. Ground Truth and Quality Assurance
The ground truth for this task is inherently robust, as it consists of the verified, real-world acceptance or
rejection decisions obtained directly from the OpenReview API for the specified conferences (NeurIPS
2023-2024, ICLR 2020-2024). To further validate the task’s premise—specifically, whether the final
outcome is typically discernible from the textual dialogue alone (Title, Abstract, Keywords, Reviews,
Rebuttal) after removing numerical scores—we conducted supplementary human evaluations. Human
evaluators were presented with the same sequential information provided to the LLM and asked to
predict the final decision. For over 90% of the evaluated manuscript instances, the true outcome was
deemed inferable from the textual evidence by a majority (>70%) of the human evaluators. This
confirms the general solvability of the task based on the provided textual interactions and reinforces
its suitability for assessing an LLM’s ability to synthesize argumentative dialogue, complementing the
reliability provided by the authentic ground truth data.

G. User Profile Inference
This section provides the details for the User Profile Inference task, corresponding to subsection 3.4.
1. Task Setup
For each instance of this task, a population of 𝑛 simulated users is defined. Every user 𝑢𝑖 within
this population is assigned a specific demographic profile, which consists of an age group selected
from ’18-34’, ’35-54’, ’55+’ and a gender selected from ’Male’, ’Female’, ’Non-binary’. This profile
assignment is carried out probabilistically, with the process intentionally tuned to often establish a
statistically dominant age-gender combination within the user pool. This characteristic is particularly
relevant for addressing the "dominant audience" query type. Additionally, a predefined pool of items,
each described by a name and a brief description, is utilized. Users are randomly assigned items from
this pool, about which they will generate comments.
2. Comment Generation Process
Each simulated user 𝑢𝑖 is associated with a specific Large Language Model (LLM), chosen randomly
from a diverse pool that includes models such as GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4o, Llama-3.3-70B, and Qwen2.5-72B. The core of the generation process involves tasking the LLM associated with user 𝑢𝑖 (who
has an assigned age group 𝐴𝑖 and gender 𝐺𝑖 ) to generate a textual comment about a selected item 𝑗
(which has a specific type 𝑇𝑗 and subject 𝑆𝑗 ). The LLM is prompted to generate content that reflects
the assigned persona interacting with the given item.
3. LLM Queries
Based on the generated comments provided as input, the evaluated LLM must answer one of two
specific types of queries. The first is the Item Audience Profile Inference (Vertex-centric Query
𝒬𝑣 (Item)). For this query, the LLM is asked, "Based on the provided comments for the item ’[Item
Name]’, what is the most likely dominant audience profile (Age Group and Gender)? Choose from
Age Groups: [’18-34’, ’35-54’, ’55+’] and Genders: [’Male’, ’Female’, ’Non-binary’]." Answering this
requires synthesizing information from multiple user comments linked to a specific item node to
infer an aggregated characteristic of its audience. The second type is the User Profile Inference
(Vertex-centric Query 𝒬𝑣 (User)), which poses the question: "Based on the provided comments from
this user, what is their most likely profile (Age Group and Gender)? Choose from Age Groups: [’18-34’,
’35-54’, ’55+’] and Genders: [’Male’, ’Female’, ’Non-binary’]." This query demands synthesizing

26

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

information from multiple comments generated by a single user node, potentially across different
items, to infer the intrinsic demographic attributes (age group and gender) of that specific user.
4. Quality Assurance
The dataset for this task was entirely generated using LLMs. We first defined a set of user personas by
assigning age group and gender attributes, ensuring through probabilistic assignment that certain
demographic combinations were more prevalent to create a potential "dominant audience" for itemcentric queries. Items with names and descriptions were sampled from a predefined pool. Various LLMs
were then assigned to personas and prompted to generate comments on these items, reflecting their
designated age and gender characteristics. To ensure task validity, we conducted human evaluations
with 15 computer science graduate students. For the item-audience query, 78% of instances were
deemed solvable (dominant audience inferable) by a majority (>70%) of evaluators. For the userprofile query, 85% of instances were similarly validated, confirming that the generated comments
contain sufficient, albeit subtle, cues for demographic inference.
Table 7: Models used in our experiments along with their versions, organizations, licenses, and
purposes. Eval: Model used for evaluation; FT: Model used for fine-tuning.
Model

Version

Phi-4
Phi-4
GPT-4o-mini
gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18
GPT-4o
gpt-4o-2024-08-06
Llama-3.1-8B
Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B Meta-Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Qwen2.5-72B
Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct
QwQ
QwQ-32B
o3-mini
o3-mini-2025-01-31
o1
o1-2024-12-17
Deepseek-R1
DeepSeek-R1
Gemini-2.5-Pro Gemini-2.5-Pro-Exp-03-25

Organization

License

Microsoft
OpenAI
OpenAI
Meta
Meta
Alibaba
Alibaba
OpenAI
OpenAI
DeepSeek
Google

MIT
Proprietary
Proprietary
Llama 3.1 Community
Llama-3.3
Qwen License
Apache 2.0
Proprietary
Proprietary
MIT
Proprietary

Eval FT
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓

✓

H. Experiment Details
This appendix provides detailed information regarding the experimental setup, the models evaluated, data generation procedures for each task within the SocialMaze benchmark, the experimental
methodology, and a summary of the overall results.
H.1. Baselines
As detailed in Table 7, we utilized five proprietary models: GPT-4o [87], GPT-4o-mini [88], o3-mini
[89] , o1 [90], and Gemini-2.5-Pro [91]. In addition, we included six open-weight models: Phi-4
[92], Llama-3.1-8B [93], Llama-3.3-70B [94], Qwen2.5-72B [95], QwQ-32B [96], and Deepseek-R1
[97].
We also included automated agent design frameworks as baselines:
ADAS [64]: Utilized GPT-4o as the Meta Agent. For agent evaluation, we tested both Phi-4 and
GPT-4o-mini and selected the better performer.
AFlow [65]: Employed GPT-4o as the optimizer. For the executor role, we tested both Phi-4 and
GPT-4o-mini and selected the better performer.

27

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

MaAS [66]: For executing the sampled agentic operators, we tested both Phi-4 and GPT-4o-mini and
selected the better performer.
DyFlow [70]: Used GPT-4o as the optimizer. For the executor role, we tested both Phi-4 and GPT-4omini and selected the better performer.
H.2. Parameter Settings
Inference Parameters During the evaluation of all LLMs across the SocialMaze tasks, we used a
temperature setting of 0.7 to allow for some variability while maintaining reasonable coherence.
Maximum output token limits were set sufficiently high to avoid truncation of reasoning or answers.
Task-Specific Configurations:
• Hidden Role Deduction: This task includes two subsets based on the number of players: ’easy’
(𝑛 = 6) and ’hard’ (𝑛 = 10). In both subsets, the number of interaction rounds 𝑇 is fixed at 3.
All experiments reported in the main body of the paper were conducted using the ’easy’ (𝑛 = 6)
subset configurations. In the publicly released dataset and the experiments in subsection 4.4, the
role distribution for the main perspective (LLM) is Investigator:Criminal:Rumormonger:Lunatic
= 3:2:60:35. In all other experiments reported in this paper, the roles are distributed equally
(1:1:1:1).
• Find the Spy: For all instances of this task, the number of players 𝑛 was set to 4, and the
number of description rounds 𝑇 was set to 3. In all experiments, the model received the spy
word in 25% of cases and the civilian word in 75% of cases.
• Rating Estimation from Text: For instances using LLM-generated data, the number of simulated
reviewers providing text was fixed at 8. For instances using real-world data scraped from
platforms like Amazon, a random number of reviews between 10 and 20 were sampled for each
product. Decimal star ratings were rounded to the nearest integer. In the final dataset, the
distribution ratio for 1-star, 2-star, 3-star, 4-star, and 5-star ratings is 1:3:10:73:13.
• Social Graph Analysis: This task also has two subsets. ’easy’: The number of individuals 𝑛 was
randomly chosen from the range [8, 10]. ’hard’: The number of individuals 𝑛 was randomly
chosen from the range [14, 16]. All generated graphs were sparse (the number of edges was
close to the number of vertices).
Review Decision Prediction: Data from a total of seven conferences (NeurIPS 2023-2024 and
ICLR 2020-2024) were sampled equally and randomly. In the final dataset, the proportion of
papers was adjusted to 67% rejected and 33% accepted.
• User Profile Inference: For both query types (item-audience inference and user-profile inference), the model was provided with a number of textual comments randomly selected from the
range [8, 12].
Fine-tuning Parameters: For the fine-tuning experiments, we trained for 2 epochs with a learning
rate of 5.0e-6, employing a cosine learning rate scheduler and a warmup ratio of 0.1. The per-device
training batch size was 1, with a gradient accumulation of 8 steps. We employed a cosine learning
rate scheduler with a warmup ratio of 0.1 and enabled bf16 precision. For these experiments, the
models were trained on 2000 examples for SFT and 1100 preference pairs for DPO. Performance was
subsequently evaluated on a distinct test set containing 500 examples. All training experiments were
conducted on 2 NVIDIA A6000 GPUs over a period of 30 hours.

28

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

H.3. Overall Performance Summary
Table 8 provides a condensed overview of model performance across the primary SocialMaze tasks.
The reported accuracy figures correspond to specific task configurations and metrics used for this
summary: For Hidden Role Deduction, the value represents the accuracy where both the Criminal
and the model’s own role are correctly identified (’Both Correct’). This evaluation uses the same
general setup as described in Section 4.4 (easy subset, Full Task variant, final interaction round Round 3), but with adjusted role proportions specifically for this summary table to minimize the effect
of random guessing. In these test instances, the roles were distributed as follows: Investigator (3%),
Criminal (2%), Rumormonger (60%), and Lunatic (35%). For Social Graph Analysis, the figure
reflects the average accuracy achieved across all four query types within the hard subset. The Review
Decision Prediction accuracy is taken from the final stage, after the model has processed the rebuttal
information. For User Profile Inference, the reported value is the average accuracy over the two
distinct inference tasks (item-audience profile inference and user-profile inference). Performance on
each task presented in this summary table was evaluated using a dedicated test set of 500 instances.
For more granular results, including performance variations across different rounds, task variants
(e.g., easy/hard subsets), or specific query types, please consult the detailed figures and tables in
Section 4 and the relevant task-specific appendices.
The results presented in Table 8 reveal distinct strengths among different types of large language
models across the SocialMaze tasks. Models renowned for Long CoT and complex reasoning capabilities, such as DeepSeek-R1, Gemini-2.5-Pro, o1, and QwQ-32B, notably excel in tasks demanding
rigorous logical deduction and handling high uncertainty or strict rule-based systems. This is particularly evident in their dominant performance on Hidden Role Deduction (e.g., DeepSeek-R1: 85.6%,
Gemini-2.5-Pro: 90.2%) and Social Graph Analysis (e.g., Gemini-2.5-Pro: 100.0%, o1: 99.2%),
where generalist models like GPT-4o lag significantly despite their broad competence. Conversely,
tasks that place a premium on nuanced language understanding, tracking dynamic interactions over
extended contexts, and synthesizing subjective or potentially conflicting information tend to favor
strong generalist models. For instance, GPT-4o demonstrates leading performance in Review Decision
Prediction (90.2%) and strong results in Find the Spy (69.2%), Rating Estimation (76.0%), and
User Profile Inference (79.2%). While the Long CoT models are often competitive in these latter
tasks, they do not consistently outperform the top generalist models, suggesting that different facets
of social reasoning draw upon different underlying model strengths – structured deduction versus
flexible language comprehension and context management. We also evaluated human performance
on these tasks by averaging the results from 10 computer science graduate students, most of whom
are relatively proficient in social deduction games. However, we did not evaluate human performance
on the Social Graph Analysis task, as the prompt format used in this task was not well-suited for
human participants.

I. Limitations
This appendix discusses two main limitations of the current version of Soc i al M a z e. They stem
largely from data construction choices and from the difficulty of formally operationalising high–level
social concepts.
I.1. Synthetic vs. Real Data Composition
Not all benchmark instances derive from fully natural human interactions. For scalability and for
balanced coverage of the targeted reasoning skills we deliberately employ three complementary
generation pipelines.

29

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Table 8: Illustrative Overall Accuracy (%) on SocialMaze Tasks. Performance evaluated on 500 test
instances per task. See text for metric details.
Model

Hidden Role Find the
Rating
Social Graph
Deduction
Spy
Estimation
Analysis

Review
User Profile
Decision
Inference
Prediction

Llama-3.1-8B
Llama-3.3-70B
Phi-4
Qwen-2.5-72B
QwQ-32B
GPT-4o-mini
GPT-4o
o3-mini
o1
DeepSeek-R1
Gemini-2.5-Pro

2.0%
9.0%
8.2%
5.6%
59.4%
4.6%
8.2%
22.2%
50.8%
85.6%
90.2%

37.2%
60.0%
45.2%
48.9%
50.2%
61.2%
69.2%
74.0%
78.4%
70.2%
76.6%

57.2%
74.8%
60.4%
72.2%
74.4%
75.8%
76.0%
71.2%
76.2%
71.0%
73.6%

28.2%
81.0%
40.6%
80.6%
95.0%
53.0%
83.2%
99.0%
99.2%
98.6%
100.0%

62.0%
72.2%
61.4%
65.8%
79.6%
85.0%
90.2%
78.6%
78.2%
82.0%
77.6%

60.2%
78.6%
62.4%
68.0%
72.2%
74.4%
79.2%
71.4%
77.0%
74.6%
73.0%

Human (avg.)

70.8%

84.4%

75.2%

-

96.0%

73.9%

LLM–assisted generation. Find the Spy and User Profile Inference rely on large language models that
are prompted to impersonate distinct human speakers. This design yields rich linguistic variety, yet
inevitably departs from truly spontaneous discourse.
Rule–based simulation. Hidden Role Deduction and Social Graph Analysis are produced by algorithmic
engines that guarantee logical solvability. Although these instances capture complex causal structure,
they do not reproduce the full unpredictability of real social exchanges.
Authentic human data. Rating Estimation from Text and Review Decision Prediction are built on
genuine reviews and peer-review discussions that were collected from public sources and minimally
normalised.
Across the six tasks the number of instances generated by each of the three pipelines is approximately
the same, resulting in a synthetic-LLM,:,synthetic-rule,:,real ratio close to 1! :!1! :!1. While this mixture
widens the behavioural spectrum that models must master, it also implies that conclusions drawn
from the benchmark may not transfer verbatim to settings where only organic human language is
present.
I.2. Lack of direct quantitative scores for Deep Reasoning, Dynamic Interaction, and Information
Uncertainty
The benchmark is organised around three sociologically motivated dimensions that are hard to express
by a single scalar. Depth of reasoning involves latent-state inference, counterfactual thinking, and
self-reflection; interaction dynamics are path-dependent and non-stationary; information uncertainty
arises from both stochastic noise and strategic deception. We therefore annotate each task qualitatively
and validate the relevance of the three dimensions a posteriori. Empirically, models with long chainof-thoughts excel only on the tasks flagged as “high” in Deep Reasoning, performance curves shift
between interaction rounds, and accuracy drops sharply once unreliable narrators are introduced.
These results provide indirect but consistent evidence that the dimensions do capture meaningful
axes of difficulty, yet they stop short of offering a formal metric. Designing rigorous, task-agnostic
numerical measures for such social constructs remains an open problem that we leave to future work.

30

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

J. Case Study
This section presents a series of representative case studies designed to analyze model behavior across
various social reasoning tasks. The subsequent figures are organized to provide detailed illustrations
as follows:
Illustrations for the Hidden Role Deduction Task (Figures 6–37): This extensive collection of
figures focuses on the Hidden Role Deduction task, examining how different models perform under
varying player perspectives and levels of reasoning complexity. Specifically, Figures 6 (Investigator
perspective), 14 (Criminal perspective), 22 (Rumormonger perspective), and 30 (Lunatic perspective)
present four distinct problem instances. The corresponding algorithmically generated solutions for
these instances are detailed in Figures 7, 15, 23, and 31, respectively. The remaining figures within
this range (Figures 8–13, 16–21, 24–29, and 32–37) showcase the detailed responses of various
models to these specific problem instances, illustrating their reasoning process across multiple rounds.
Illustrative Cases from Other Benchmark Tasks (Figures 38–49): Following the in-depth illustrations for Hidden Role Deduction, Figures 38 through 49 present selected problem instances and
corresponding model responses from other tasks within the SocialMaze benchmark. This offers a
broader view of model capabilities in diverse social reasoning scenarios.
Misclassification Examples in Review Decision Prediction (Figures 50–53): Finally, Figures 50, 51,
52, and 53 highlight specific instances from the Review Decision Prediction task. These cases focus on
situations where models incorrectly predicted outcomes, such as classifying papers that should have
been accepted as rejected, or vice versa, thereby illustrating common failure modes in this particular
task.
It should be noted that for brevity, some lengthy model responses in the figures have been truncated,
with omitted content indicated by a red ellipsis.
Analysis of Model Performance: A key observation emerging from the case studies focused on the
Hidden Role Deduction task (Figures 6–37) is the stark contrast in reasoning depth between models
employing short Chain-of-Thought (CoT) processes and those utilizing more extended Long CoT.
Models such as LLaMA-3.1-8B often demonstrate a surface-level understanding of the scenario: they
can identify internal inconsistencies and perform basic analysis, yet struggle to escape flawed initial
assumptions. For instance, as illustrated in Figure 14, LLaMA-3.1-8B, despite correctly inferring
its own role as the criminal, still incorrectly accuses Player 5, reflecting a failure in maintaining
coherent self-reasoning. Similarly, Figure 30 shows that even after models like LLaMA-3.1-8B,
LLaMA-3.3-70B, and GPT-4o correctly identify other players as the criminal, they are unable to
reconceptualize their own identity in the social context, highlighting a limitation in recursive selfmodeling. In contrast, models such as Gemini-2.5-Pro and DeepSeek-R1 consistently achieve
near-perfect reasoning across all examined perspectives within this task. Their ability to integrate
multiple viewpoints, resolve contradictions, and update their beliefs dynamically, as seen in their
respective responses, suggests a significantly stronger capacity for long-form social reasoning when
faced with the complexities of hidden roles and deceptive information.

31

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective)
Role: "1": "Investigator", "2": "Criminal", "3": "Lunatic",
"4": "Rumormonger", "5": "Investigator", "6": "Investigator"
Round 1:
Player 1 says Player 3 is not the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 6 is the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 1 is the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 6 is the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 3 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 1 is not the criminal.
Round 2:
Player 1 says Player 3 is not the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 4 is the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 5 is not the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 1 is the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 6 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Round 3:
Player 1 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 6 is the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 6 is not the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 3 is not the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 3 is not the criminal.
Criminal Prediction:
Llama-3.1-8B : 2 ✅
Llama-3.3-70B : 2 ✅
GPT-4o-mini : 2 ✅
GPT-4o : 6 ❎
Qwen2.5-72B : 6 ❎
o3-mini : 2 ✅
o1 : 2 ✅
QwQ-32B : 2 ✅
DeepSeek-R1 : 2 ✅
Gemini-2.5-Pro : 2 ✅

Self-Role Prediction:
Llama-3.1-8B : Investigator ✅
Llama-3.3-70B : Investigator ✅
GPT-4o-mini : Investigator ✅
GPT-4o : Investigator ✅
Qwen2.5-72B : Investigator ✅
o3-mini : Investigator ✅
o1 : Investigator ✅
QwQ-32B : Investigator ✅
DeepSeek-R1 : Investigator ✅
Gemini-2.5-Pro :Investigator ✅

Figure 6: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective)

32

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective) Solution
I'm told I'm an Investigator, but I might also be a Rumormonger. I need to
discuss both possibilities
Considering the case where I'm an Investigator, there are 2 Investigators
remaining In this scenario, which players could be Investigators? Player 2 has
accused more than one person of being the criminal, so player 2 must be
excluded Player 3 says I'm the criminal, but I can't be the criminal, so player 3
must be excluded Player 4 says I'm the criminal, but I can't be the criminal, so
player 4 must be excluded Player 5's statements have no contradictions, so
they could be an Investigator Player 6's statements have no contradictions, so
they could be an Investigator Therefore, the players who could be Investigators
are: {1, 5, 6} Now we need to consider all possible combinations of
Investigators I am an Investigator, so I will occupy a position in the
combination Considering the case where investigators are {1, 5, 6} Then the
set of potential criminals is {2, 3, 4} Let's review the statements made by
investigators Player 1 said 3 is not the criminal But 3 is in the set of potential
criminals, so we remove 3 Now the potential criminals are {2, 4} Player 6
said 4 is not the criminal But 4 is in the set of potential criminals, so we
remove 4 Now the potential criminals are {2} Based on the above analysis,
this combination is possible, and I could be an Investigator. In this case, only
{2} could be the criminal
Considering the case where I'm a Rumormonger, there are 3 Investigators
remaining In this scenario, which players could be Investigators? Player 2 has
accused more than one person of being the criminal, so player 2 must be
excluded Player 3 says I'm the criminal, but I can't be the criminal, so player 3
must be excluded Player 4 says I'm the criminal, but I can't be the criminal, so
player 4 must be excluded Player 5's statements have no contradictions, so
they could be an Investigator Player 6's statements have no contradictions, so
they could be an Investigator Therefore, the players who could be Investigators
are: {5, 6} There aren't enough potential Investigators to reach the required
count of 3, so this scenario is impossible I must be an Investigator
Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 2. My Role Is Investigator.

Figure 7: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective) Solution

33

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective Round 1)
To analyze the statements from Round 1, let's break down the information: I, Player 1, am an Investigator. I stated that Player 3 is not the criminal. This
is truthful. - Player 2 claims Player 6 is the criminal. If Player 2 is an
Investigator, this would be true. If Player 2 is the Rumormonger or Lunatic, it
could be false. - Player 3 claims I am the criminal. Since I know I am not the
criminal, Player 3 is either the Rumormonger, Lunatic, or the Criminal. Player 4 claims Player 6 is the criminal. Similar reasoning as with Player 2. Player 5 says Player 3 is not the criminal, which aligns with my statement. If
Player 5 is an Investigator, this is true. If Player 5 is the Rumormonger or
Lunatic, it may be false. - Player 6 says I am not the criminal. This statement
is true. Let's consider the implications: - Player 2 and Player 4 both accuse
Player 6. If either is an Investigator, Player 6 is likely the criminal. - Player 3
accusing me suggests Player 3 is not an Investigator. - Player 5 agrees with my
statement about Player 3, suggesting alignment with truth if Player 5 is an
Investigator. - Player 6's statement that I am not the criminal is true. Based
on this analysis, the most suspicious player is Player 6, given multiple
accusations from others. However, without more rounds, it is not conclusive.
Final Judgment after Round 1: Final Criminal Is Player 6. My Role Is
Investigator.

Response by GPT-4o
Figure 8: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective) GPT-4o Round 1

34

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective Round 2)
Let's analyze the statements from Round 2, adding them to our understanding
from Round 1: - I, Player 1, again state that Player 3 is not the criminal. This
is truthful. - Player 2 now claims Player 4 is the criminal, changing their
accusation from Player 6 in Round 1. This inconsistency suggests Player 2
might not be an Investigator. - Player 3 states Player 5 is not the criminal.
Given I know Player 3 is not an Investigator, this statement could be false. Player 4 accuses me (Player 1) of being the criminal. Since I am not the
criminal, Player 4 cannot be an Investigator. - Player 5 claims Player 6 is not
the criminal. This contradicts accusations from Round 1 and suggests Player 5
might not be an Investigator. - Player 6 claims Player 4 is not the criminal.
This contradicts Player 2's current accusation and suggests Player 6 might not
be an Investigator. From this analysis: - Player 4 and Player 6 have both
been accused as criminals, but Player 4 is consistently accused more. - Player
2's inconsistency in accusations suggests they are not an Investigator. - Player
3's statement about Player 5 is not reliable based on their role. - Player 5's
statement contradicts previous accusations of Player 6. Considering the
consistency of accusations and aligning them with my investigative truth,
Player 4 appears more suspicious than Player 6 due to Player 2's current
accusation and Player 4's accusation against me. Final Judgment after
Round 2: Final Criminal Is Player 4. My Role Is Investigator.

Response by GPT-4o
Figure 9: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective) GPT-4o Round 2

35

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective Round 3)
Let's analyze the statements from Round 3, along with our understanding
from previous rounds: - I, Player 1, state that Player 4 is not the criminal.
This is truthful and clarifies my previous uncertainty about Player 4. - Player
2 again accuses Player 6 of being the criminal, which is consistent with their
Round 1 statement. - Player 3 states Player 6 is not the criminal. Given that
Player 3 is not an Investigator, this statement could be false. - Player 4 states
Player 3 is not the criminal, which aligns with my truthful statement from all
rounds. - Player 5 claims Player 4 is not the criminal, which aligns with my
statement in this round. - Player 6 states Player 3 is not the criminal, aligning
with my initial statement about Player 3. Considering the full context: My consistent statements about Player 3 being not the criminal have been
supported by Player 4 and Player 5 in this round. - Player 2's consistent
accusation of Player 6 suggests a possible Investigator role or an accurate
Rumormonger or Lunatic. - Player 3's statement contradicts Player 2 and
supports Player 6, which is suspect given their role is not Investigator. - Player
4, now supported by my statement and Player 5, is not the criminal. - Player
6's statement about Player 3 matches my truth, but their role is suspect given
Player 2's consistent accusations. Based on these observations, with Player 4
ruled out and Player 3 being consistently found not guilty, the consistent
accusations against Player 6 make them the most likely candidate for the
criminal role. Final Judgment after Round 3: Final Criminal Is Player 6.
My Role Is Investigator.

Response by GPT-4o
Figure 10: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective) GPT-4o Round 3

36

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective Round 1)
Step-by-step Analysis: 1. I (Player 1, an Investigator) stated that “Player 3 is
not the criminal.” Since I’m truthful, we know for sure that Player 3 is not the
criminal. 2. Looking at the other statements:
• Player 2 and Player 4 both
claim “Player 6 is the criminal.”
• Player 6 states “Player 1 is not the
criminal” (which is consistent with what we already know).
• Player 3 says
“Player 1 is the criminal.” Because I know I’m not criminal, and true
Investigators always tell the truth, Player 3’s false claim tells us that Player 3
cannot be a genuine Investigator. (Player 3 must be either the Rumormonger
or Lunatic, but not the criminal since I already cleared that possibility.)
•
Player 5 says “Player 3 is not the criminal” (which agrees with what I said, but
provides no additional elimination on its own). 3. If we consider that
Investigators always speak truthfully regarding who the criminal is, then
Players 2 and 4 could very well be genuine Investigators. Their identical
claims that “Player 6 is the criminal” would then be truthful. (Player 6, even if
he were the criminal, could occasionally state truths, since only the
Investigators are bound to always tell the truth.) 4. This scenario is
consistent if:
• The real criminal is Player 6.
• The three Investigators are
Players 1, 2, and 4.
• Players 3 and 5, who make statements that can be
arbitrary, are the Rumormonger and Lunatic (in some order). Based on the
evidence from Round 1: Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 6. My
Role Is Investigator.

Response by o3-mini
Figure 11: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective) o3-mini Round 1

37

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective Round 2)
Step-by-step analysis for Round 2: 1. I (Player 1) am an Investigator, so my
statement “Player 3 is not the criminal” is true. We can be sure that Player 3 is
not the criminal. 2......In this scenario, Player 2’s statement “Player 4 is the
criminal” becomes false. That fits if Player 2 is the Criminal – criminals can
lie arbitrarily.
– I (Player 1) am an Investigator, and we can assign the
third Investigator role to Player 3 because his statement “Player 5 is not the
criminal” would be true.
– Then the three Investigators are Players 1, 3,
and 6; and the three non-investigators are Players 2, 4, and 5. With exactly
one Criminal needed, assigning that to Player 2 (the one whose accusation is
false) is consistent; Players 4 and 5 would then be the Rumormonger and
Lunatic in some order. 6. Scenario B resolves the conflicts neatly:
–
Player 1 (Investigator) truthfully asserts that Player 3 is not criminal.
–
Player 3 (Investigator) truthfully asserts that Player 5 is not criminal.
–
Player 6 (Investigator) truthfully asserts that Player 4 is not criminal.
–
Player 2 (Criminal) falsely accuses Player 4.
– Player 4 (non-investigator)
falsely accuses Player 1.
– Player 5 (non-investigator) states “Player 6 is not
the criminal” (which is factually true although they are not obligated to be
truthful). 7. Based on this reasoning, the most consistent assignment from
the Round 2 statements is:
– Final Criminal: Player 2.
– Investigators:
Players 1, 3, and 6.
– The remaining roles (Rumormonger and Lunatic) go
to Players 4 and 5. Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 2. My Role
Is Investigator.

Response by o3-mini

Figure 12: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective) o3-mini Round 2

38

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective Round 3)
Step-by-step Analysis (integrating all rounds): We know for certain that I
(Player 1) am an Investigator. That means every statement I make must be
true. In each round, I stated “Player 3 is not the criminal” (Rounds 1 and 2)
and “Player 4 is not the criminal” (Round 3).....Player 5 says “Player 3 is not
the criminal” in Round 1, “Player 6 is not the criminal” in Round 2, and
“Player 4 is not the criminal” in Round 3. All these are true under any
scenario where the criminal is neither 3, 4, nor 6.
– Player 6 says “Player 1
is not the criminal” (Round 1), “Player 4 is not the criminal” (Round 2), and
“Player 3 is not the criminal” (Round 3). All these statements would be true
provided criminal is not 1, 3, or 4. Thus P5 and P6 are very good candidates
for the remaining Investigators. With P1, P5, and P6 as our three
Investigators, the criminal must be among the remaining players: Players 2, 3,
or 4. But by my statements, P3 and P4 are not criminal. That leaves only
Player 2. Now check the non-Investigators’ statements (Players 2, 3, and 4
across rounds): • Player 2’s statements:
– Round 1: “Player 6 is the
criminal.” (False since P6 is an Investigator.)
– Round 2: “Player 4 is the
criminal.” (False, as P4 is cleared.)
– Round 3: “Player 6 is the criminal.”
(Again false.) A non-investigator (criminal, Rumormonger, or Lunatic) is free
to provide false statements. • Player 3, already determined non-Investigator,
in Round 1 falsely accuses me, and then makes statements in Rounds 2 and 3
that are correct—but this mix is permissible for a non-Investigator. • Player 4,
similarly, makes at least one false claim in Round 2, which is acceptable. All
rounds are fully consistent with: – Investigators: Players 1, 5, and 6. –
Criminal: Player 2. – The remaining two non-investigators (the
Rumormonger and the Lunatic) being Players 3 and 4 (in some order). Final
Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 2. My Role Is Investigator.

Response by o3-mini
Figure 13: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Investigator Perspective) o3-mini Round 3

39

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective)
Role: "1": "Criminal", "2": "Investigator", "3": "Investigator",
"4": "Investigator", "5": "Rumormonger", "6": "Lunatic"
Round 1:
Player 1 says Player 3 is the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 1 is the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 1 is the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 2 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 1 is not the criminal.
Round 2:
Player 1 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 6 is not the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 1 is the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 6 is the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Round 3:
Player 1 says Player 3 is not the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 5 is not the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 1 is the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 5 is not the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 4 is the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 1 is the criminal.
Criminal Prediction:
Llama-3.1-8B : 5 ❎
Llama-3.3-70B : 1 ✅
GPT-4o-mini : 1 ✅
GPT-4o : 1 ✅
Qwen2.5-72B : 1 ✅
o3-mini : 1 ✅
o1 : 1 ✅
QwQ-32B : 1 ✅
DeepSeek-R1 : 1 ✅
Gemini-2.5-Pro : 1 ✅

Self-Role Prediction:
Llama-3.1-8B : Criminal ✅
Llama-3.3-70B : Criminal ✅
GPT-4o-mini : Criminal ✅
GPT-4o : Criminal ✅
Qwen2.5-72B : Criminal ✅
o3-mini : Criminal ✅
o1 : Criminal ✅
QwQ-32B : Criminal ✅
DeepSeek-R1 : Criminal ✅
Gemini-2.5-Pro : Criminal ✅

Figure 14: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective)

40

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective) Solution
I'm told I'm a Criminal, but I might also be a Lunatic. I need to discuss both
possibilities
Considering the case where I'm a Criminal, there are 3 Investigators remaining
In this scenario, which players could be Investigators? Player 2's statements
have no contradictions, so they could be an Investigator Player 3's statements
have no contradictions, so they could be an Investigator Player 4's statements
have no contradictions, so they could be an Investigator Player 5 has accused
more than one person of being the criminal, so player 5 must be excluded
Player 6 says I'm not the criminal, but I am the criminal, so player 6 must be
excluded Therefore, the players who could be Investigators are: {2, 3, 4} Now
we need to consider all possible combinations of Investigators Considering the
case where investigators are {2, 3, 4} I am the Criminal,so the set of potential
criminals is {1} Let's review the statements made by investigators Player 2
said 1 is the criminal So the only possible criminal is 1 Player 4 said 1 is the
criminal So the only possible criminal is 1 Player 4 said 1 is the criminal So
the only possible criminal is 1 Player 3 said 1 is the criminal So the only
possible criminal is 1 Based on the above analysis, this combination is possible,
and I could be the Criminal. In this case, only {1} could be the criminal
Considering the case where I'm a Lunatic, there are 3 Investigators remaining
In this scenario, which players could be Investigators? Player 2 says I'm the
criminal, but I can't be the criminal, so player 2 must be excluded Player 3 says
I'm the criminal, but I can't be the criminal, so player 3 must be excluded
Player 4 says I'm the criminal, but I can't be the criminal, so player 4 must be
excluded Player 5 has accused more than one person of being the criminal, so
player 5 must be excluded Player 6 says I'm the criminal, but I can't be the
criminal, so player 6 must be excluded Therefore, the players who could be
Investigators are: {} There aren't enough potential Investigators to reach the
required count of 3, so this scenario is impossible I must be a Criminal
Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 1. My Role Is Criminal."

Figure 15: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective) Solution

41

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective Round 1)
### Analysis of Round 1 Statements: 1. Player 1 (You) says Player 3 is the
criminal. - As a Criminal, you can lie or tell the truth. This statement could
be either. 2. Player 2 says Player 1 is the criminal. - If Player 2 is an
Investigator, this statement is true. - If Player 2 is a Criminal, this statement
could be a lie. - If Player 2 is a Rumormonger, this statement could be false.
- If Player 2 is a Lunatic, this statement could be true or false. 3. Player 3
says Player 4 is not the criminal. - If Player 3 is an Investigator, this
statement is true. - If Player 3 is a Criminal, this statement could be a lie.
- If Player 3 is a Rumormonger, this statement could be false. - If Player 3 is
a Lunatic, this statement could be true or false. 4. Player 4 says Player 1 is
the criminal. - If Player 4 is an Investigator, this statement is true. - If
Player 4 is a Criminal, this statement could be a lie. - If Player 4 is a
Rumormonger, this statement could be false. - If Player 4 is a Lunatic, this
statement could be true or false. 5. Player 5 says Player 2 is not the criminal.
- If Player 5 is an Investigator, this statement is true. - If Player 5 is a
Criminal, this statement could be a lie. - If Player 5 is a Rumormonger, this
statement could be false. - If Player 5 is a Lunatic, this statement could be
true or false. 6. Player 6 says Player 1 is not the criminal. - If Player 6 is
an Investigator, this statement is true. - If Player 6 is a Criminal, this
statement could be a lie. - If Player 6 is a Rumormonger, this statement
could be false. - If Player 6 is a Lunatic, this statement could be true or false.
### Summary of Round 1: - Player 1 is accused by Player 2, Player 4, and
Player 6. - Player 2 is exonerated by Player 5. - Player 3 is accused by Player
1. - Player 4 is exonerated by Player 3. ### Deductions: - Player 1 (You) is
accused by 3 players, which is a strong indication that you might be the
Criminal. - Player 2 is exonerated by one player, which suggests they might be
an Investigator. - Player 3 is accused by one player and exonerated by one
player, making their role less clear. - Player 4 is exonerated by one player,
which suggests they might be an Investigator. - Player 5 exonerates Player 2,
which suggests they might be an Investigator. - Player 6 exonerates Player 1,
which suggests they might be a Lunatic or a Criminal. ### Final Judgment
for Round 1: Final Criminal Is Player 1. My Role Is Criminal.

Response by Qwen2.5-72B
Figure 16: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective) Qwen2.5-72B Round 1

42

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective Round 2)
### Analysis of Round 2 Statements: 1. Player 1 (You) says Player 4 is not
the criminal. - As a Criminal, you can lie or tell the truth. This statement
could be either. 2. Player 2 says Player 4 is not the criminal. - If Player 2 is
an Investigator, this statement is true. - If Player 2 is a Criminal, this
statement could be a lie. - If Player 2 is a Rumormonger, this statement
could be false. - If Player 2 is a Lunatic, this statement could be true or false.
3. Player 3 says Player 6 is not the criminal. - If Player 3 is an Investigator,
this statement is true. - If Player 3 is a Criminal, this statement could be a
lie. - If Player 3 is a Rumormonger, this statement could be false. - If
Player 3 is a Lunatic, this statement could be true or false. 4. Player 4 says
Player 1 is the criminal. - If Player 4 is an Investigator, this statement is true.
- If Player 4 is a Criminal, this statement could be a lie. - If Player 4 is a
Rumormonger, this statement could be false. - If Player 4 is a Lunatic, this
statement could be true or false. 5. Player 5 says Player 6 is the criminal. If Player 5 is an Investigator, this statement is true. - If Player 5 is a
Criminal, this statement could be a lie. - If Player 5 is a Rumormonger, this
statement could be false. - If Player 5 is a Lunatic, this statement could be
true or false. 6. Player 6 says Player 4 is not the criminal. - If Player 6 is
an Investigator, this statement is true. - If Player 6 is a Criminal, this
statement could be a lie. - If Player 6 is a Rumormonger, this statement
could be false. - If Player 6 is a Lunatic, this statement could be true or false.
### Summary of Round 2: - Player 1 is accused by Player 4. - Player 4 is
exonerated by Player 1, Player 2, and Player 6. - Player 6 is exonerated by
Player 3 and accused by Player 5. ### Combining Rounds 1 and 2: - Player
1 (You) is accused by Player 2, Player 4, and Player 6 in Round 1. - Player 4 is
exonerated by Player 1, Player 2, and Player 6 in Round 2. - Player 6 is
exonerated by Player 3 in Round 2 and accused by Player 5 in Round 2.
### Deductions: - Player 1 (You) is consistently accused by multiple players,
which strongly suggests you are the Criminal. - Player 4 is exonerated by
multiple players, which suggests they might be an Investigator or a
Rumormonger. - Player 2 is exonerated by Player 5, which suggests they
might be an Investigator. - Player 3 exonerates Player 6, which suggests they
might be an Investigator or a Rumormonger. - Player 5 accuses Player 6,
which suggests they might be an Investigator. - Player 6 exonerates Player 4,
which suggests they might be a Lunatic or a Criminal. ### Final Judgment
for Round 2: Final Criminal Is Player 1. My Role Is Criminal.

Response by Qwen2.5-72B
43

Figure 17: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective) Qwen2.5-72B Round 2

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective Round 3)
### Analysis of Round 3 Statements: 1. Player 1 (You) says Player 3 is not
the criminal. - As a Criminal, you can lie or tell the truth. This statement
could be either. 2. Player 2 says Player 5 is not the criminal. - If Player 2 is
an Investigator, this statement is true. - If Player 2 is a Criminal, this
statement could be a lie. - If Player 2 is a Rumormonger, this statement
could be false. - If Player 2 is a Lunatic, this statement could be true or false.
3. Player 3 says Player 1 is the criminal. - If Player 3 is an Investigator, this
statement is true. - If Player 3 is a Criminal, this statement could be a lie.
- If Player 3 is a Rumormonger, this statement could be false. - If Player 3 is
a Lunatic, this statement could be true or false. 4. Player 4 says Player 5 is
not the criminal. - If Player 4 is an Investigator, this statement is true. - If
Player 4 is a Criminal, this statement could be a lie. If Player 6 is a
Rumormonger, this statement could be false. - If Player 6 is a Lunatic, this
statement could be true or false. ### Summary of Round 3: - Player 1 is
exonerated by Player 3 in Round 3 and accused by Player 3 and Player 6. Player 3 is exonerated by Player 1 in Round 3 and accuses Player 1. - Player 4
is exonerated by Player 4 and Player 2 in Round 3 and accused by Player 5. Player 5 is exonerated by Player 2 and Player 4 in Round 3 and accuses Player
4. ### Combining All Rounds: - Player 1 (You) is accused by Player 2,
Player 4, and Player 6 in Round 1. - Player 1 is accused by Player 3 and
Player 6 in Round 3. - Player 4 is exonerated by Player 1, Player 2, and Player
6 in Round 2. - Player 4 is exonerated by Player 4 and Player 2 in Round 3. Player 5 is exonerated by Player 2 and Player 4 in Round 3. - Player 5 accuses
Player 4 in Round 3. - Player 6 is exonerated by Player 3 in Round 2 and
accused by Player 5 in Round 3. ### Deductions: - Player 1 (You) is
consistently accused by multiple players, which strongly suggests you are the
Criminal. - Player 4 is exonerated by multiple players, which suggests they
might be an Investigator or a Rumormonger. - Player 2 exonerates Player 4
and Player 5, which suggests they might be an Investigator. - Player 3 accuses
Player 1, which suggests they might be an Investigator or a Criminal. - Player
5 accuses Player 4, which suggests they might be an Investigator. - Player 6
accuses Player 1, which suggests they might be a Lunatic or a Criminal.
### Final Judgment for Round 3: Final Criminal Is Player 1. My Role Is
Criminal.

Response by Qwen2.5-72B
Figure 18: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective) Qwen2.5-72B Round 3
44

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective Round 1)
Let's analyze the statements from Round 1. Since I am Player 1 and I was
told I am the Criminal, I will try to verify this information based on the
statements. Player 1 (myself) says Player 3 is the criminal, but since I was
told I am the Criminal, this statement could be false, as Criminals can provide
misleading information. Players 2 and 4 both say I (Player 1) am the
criminal, which aligns with the information I was given. However, this does
not necessarily confirm my role, as other roles can also make statements that
happen to be true. Player 3 says Player 4 is not the criminal, which could be
true or false, and does not provide direct information about my role. Player
5 says Player 2 is not the criminal, which also does not provide direct
information about my role. Player 6 says I (Player 1) am not the criminal,
which contradicts the information I was given. However, since Player 6 could
be any role, this statement alone is not enough to confirm or deny my role.
Given the information from Round 1, I will make my judgment based on the
majority of statements and the game roles' characteristics. Final Judgment:
Final Criminal Is Player 1. My Role Is Criminal.

Response by Llama-3.3-70B
Figure 19: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective) Llama-3.3-70B Round 1

45

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective Round 2)
Let's analyze the statements from Round 2, in addition to the statements from
Round 1. From Round 1, we had: - Players 2 and 4 saying I (Player 1) am
the criminal. - Player 6 saying I (Player 1) am not the criminal. From
Round 2, we have: - Players 1 (myself), 2, and 6 saying Player 4 is not the
criminal. - Player 4 saying I (Player 1) am the criminal, which is consistent
with their statement from Round 1. - Player 5 saying Player 6 is the criminal.
Considering my role as told to me (Criminal), and analyzing the statements, it
seems that Players 2 and 4 are consistent in accusing me of being the criminal.
However, as a Criminal, my statements can be false, and I have no way to
confirm my own role solely based on the statements of others. The
statements about other players being or not being the criminal do not provide
conclusive evidence about my role but suggest that there is confusion among
the players regarding who the criminal might be. Given the information
from both rounds, I will make my judgment based on the majority of
statements and the game roles' characteristics. Final Judgment: Final
Criminal Is Player 1. My Role Is Criminal.

Response by Llama-3.3-70B

Figure 20: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective) Llama-3.3-70B Round 2

46

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective Round 3)
Let's analyze the statements from Round 3, in addition to the statements from
Rounds 1 and 2. From Round 1, we had: - Players 2 and 4 saying I (Player 1)
am the criminal. - Player 6 saying I (Player 1) am not the criminal. From
Round 2, we had: - Players 1 (myself), 2, and 6 saying Player 4 is not the
criminal. - Player 4 saying I (Player 1) am the criminal. - Player 5 saying
Player 6 is the criminal. From Round 3, we have: - Player 3 saying I (Player
1) am the criminal. - Player 6 saying I (Player 1) am the criminal, which is a
change from their statement in Round 1. - Players 2 and 4 saying Player 5 is
not the criminal. - Player 5 saying Player 4 is the criminal. Considering the
statements across all rounds, it's notable that: - Players 2, 3, 4, and 6 have all
accused me (Player 1) of being the criminal at some point. - Player 6 initially
said I was not the criminal but changed their statement in Round 3 to say I am
the criminal. As a player told I am the Criminal, and given the accumulation
of accusations against me from multiple players, including the change in
Player 6's statement, it seems more likely that I am indeed the Criminal, as the
majority of players have pointed towards me at some point. Final Judgment:
Final Criminal Is Player 1. My Role Is Criminal.

Response by Llama-3.3-70B
Figure 21: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Criminal Perspective) Llama-3.3-70B Round 3

47

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective)
Role: "1": "Rumormonger", "2": "Lunatic", "3": "Criminal",
"4": "Investigator", "5": "Investigator", "6": "Investigator"
Round 1:
Player 1 says Player 2 is the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 1 is the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 2 is not the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 1 is not the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 6 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 3 is the criminal.
Round 2:
Player 1 says Player 2 is the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 1 is the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 2 is not the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 1 is not the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 6 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 3 is the criminal.
Round 3:
Player 1 says Player 2 is not the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 5 is the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 4 is the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 1 is not the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 6 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Criminal Prediction:
Llama-3.1-8B : 6 ❎
Llama-3.3-70B : 6 ❎
GPT-4o-mini : 6 ❎
GPT-4o : 6 ❎
Qwen2.5-72B : 2 ❎
o3-mini : 6 ❎
o1 : 6 ❎
QwQ-32B : 3 ✅
DeepSeek-R1 : 3 ✅
Gemini-2.5-Pro : 3 ✅

Self-Role Prediction:
Llama-3.1-8B : Investigator ❎
Llama-3.3-70B : Investigator ❎
GPT-4o-mini : Investigator ❎
GPT-4o : Investigator ❎
Qwen2.5-72B : Unknown ❎
o3-mini : Investigator ❎
o1 : Investigator ❎
QwQ-32B : Unknown ❎
DeepSeek-R1 : 3 ✅
Gemini-2.5-Pro : Rumormonger ✅

Figure 22: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective)

48

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

HRD (Rumormonger Perspective) Solution
I'm told I'm an Investigator, but I might also be a Rumormonger. I need to
discuss both possibilities
Considering the case where I'm an Investigator, there are 2 Investigators
remaining In this scenario, which players could be Investigators? Player 2 says
I'm the criminal, but I can't be the criminal, so player 2 must be
excluded......Therefore, the players who could be Investigators are: {1, 4, 5, 6}
Now we need to consider all possible combinations of Investigators I am an
Investigator, so I will occupy a position in the combination. Considering the
case where investigators are {1, 4, 5} Then the set of potential criminals is {2,
3, 6} Let's review the statements made by investigators.....So this
combination of investigators cannot be valid, let's consider other combinations
I've discussed all combinations, and the scenario where I'm an Investigator is
impossible. I must be a Rumormonger
Considering the case where I'm a Rumormonger, there are 3 Investigators
remaining In this scenario, which players could be Investigators? Player 2 says
I'm the criminal, but I can't be the criminal, so player 2 must be excluded
Player 3 has accused more than one person of being the criminal, so player 3
must be excluded Player 4's statements have no contradictions, so they could
be an Investigator Player 5's statements have no contradictions, so they could
be an Investigator Player 6's statements have no contradictions, so they could
be an Investigator Therefore, the players who could be Investigators are: {4, 5,
6} Now we need to consider all possible combinations of Investigators I am a
Rumormonger, so I will not occupy a position in the combination Considering
the case where investigators are {4, 5, 6} Then the set of potential criminals is
{2, 3} Let's review the statements made by investigators Player 6 said 3 is the
criminal So the only possible criminal is {3} Player 5 said 3 is the criminal So
the only possible criminal is {3} Based on the above analysis, this combination
is possible, and I could be a Rumormonger. In this case, only {3} could be the
criminal
Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 3. My Role Is Rumormonger.
Figure 23: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) Solution

49

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective Round 1)
Let's analyze the statements made in Round 1 to determine the likely roles of
each player and identify the criminal. 1. Player 1 (Investigator): Claims
Player 2 is the criminal (truthful). 2. Player 2: Claims Player 1 is the criminal
(could be true or false, as Player 2 could be the Criminal or a
Rumormonger/Lunatic). 3. Player 3: Claims Player 2 is not the criminal
(could be true; if Player 3 is an Investigator, this is true; if not, it could be
false). 4. Player 4: Claims Player 1 is not the criminal (this is true since Player
1 is an Investigator). 5. Player 5: Claims Player 6 is not the criminal (could be
true; Player 5 could be an Investigator or misled). 6. Player 6: Claims Player 3
is the criminal (could be true or false). From this analysis: - Since I am
Player 1 and I know I am an Investigator, my statement about Player 2 being
the criminal is true. - Player 4 confirms I am not the criminal, which supports
my status as Investigator. - Player 2's claim that I am the criminal is likely an
attempt to mislead, indicating Player 2 is suspicious. - Player 3\u2019s claim
that Player 2 is not the criminal could support that Player 3 is either an
Investigator or misled, but does not directly contradict my information since
Player 2 is indeed the criminal. - Player 6's claim about Player 3 being the
criminal contradicts Player 3's statement. At this point, I have enough
information to conclude: - Player 2 is the criminal based on my status as
Investigator and the statements corroborating this. Final Judgment: Final
Criminal Is Player 2. My Role Is Investigator.

Response by GPT-4o-mini
Figure 24: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) GPT-4o-mini Round 1

50

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective Round 2)
Let's analyze the statements made in Round 2, keeping in mind that I am
Player 1 and know that I am an Investigator. 1. Player 1 (Investigator):
Claims Player 2 is not the criminal (this contradicts my prior statement,
indicating new information). 2. Player 2: Claims Player 5 is the criminal
(could be true or false; Player 2 could be lying). 3. Player 3: Claims Player 4 is
the criminal (could be true or false; does not directly contradict my
knowledge). 4. Player 4: Claims Player 1 is not the criminal (this is true since
I am an Investigator). 5. Player 5: Claims Player 6 is not the criminal (could
be true or false; Player 5 could be an Investigator or misled). 6. Player 6:
Claims Player 4 is not the criminal (could be true or false; Player 6 could be
lying or telling the truth). ### Analysis: 1. My Statement: My statement
about Player 2 being not the criminal contradicts my previous conclusion that
Player 2 is the criminal. This suggests that either: - I might be mistaken
(impossible as I am an Investigator and always truthful), - Or Player 2 is
indeed not the criminal, which means I need to reconsider who the criminal is
based on new information. 2. Player 2's Statement: If Player 2 is claiming
Player 5 is the criminal, that statement can be misleading if Player 2 is the
Criminal. 3. Player 3's Statement: Player 3's claim that Player 4 is the
criminal does not contradict my knowledge but needs to be analyzed further.
4. Player 4's Statement: Confirms I am not the criminal. 5. Player 5's
Statement: States Player 6 is not the criminal; this could either be true or false.
6. Player 6's Statement: States Player 4 is not the criminal; again, this could be
true or false. ### Conclusion: Given the conflicting nature of the
statements, I still need to discern who the Criminal is. I will analyze the
implications: - If Player 2 is not the criminal, then either Player 5 or Player 4
could be. - Player 3's accusation of Player 4 could reinforce that Player 4 is
the Criminal if Player 3 is an Investigator or misled. The only definitive
truth is that I am an Investigator and must remain truthful. However, Player
2's statement about Player 5 being the criminal could be the key to
determining the criminal. Since Player 1's statement about Player 2 being
not the criminal does not hold under scrutiny and seems to be a point of
confusion in deduction, I must rely on corroborating information and not my
initial conclusion. Thus, I now suspect that: - Player 5 or Player 4 could be
the Criminal, with Player 3's statement potentially holding more weight if
Player 3 is truthful. With the given statements and the contradictions, I will
need more information to conclude definitively but suspect: Final Judgment:
Final Criminal Is Player 4. My Role Is Investigator.

Response by GPT-4o-mini
Figure 25: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) GPT-4o-mini Round 2

51

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective Round 3)
Let's analyze the statements made in Round 3, taking into account the
previous rounds and the fact that I am Player 1 (Investigator). 1. Player 1
(Investigator): Claims Player 6 is the criminal (this is truthful). 2. Player 2:
Claims Player 3 is not the criminal (could be true or false). 3. Player 3:
Claims Player 6 is the criminal (this corroborates my statement). 4. Player 4:
Claims Player 2 is not the criminal (could be true or false). 5. Player 5:
Claims Player 3 is the criminal (could be true or false). 6. Player 6: Claims
Player 2 is not the criminal (could be true or false). ### Analysis: 1. My
Statement: I stated that Player 6 is the criminal, which is true since I am the
Investigator.
2. Player 2's Statement: If Player 2 claims Player 3 is not the
criminal, this does not contradict my knowledge that Player 6 is the criminal
but introduces uncertainty about Player 3's role. 3. Player 3's Statement:
Player 3's claim that Player 6 is the criminal corroborates my statement,
indicating that Player 3 could be an Investigator or a truthful player. 4.
Player 4's Statement: This statement about Player 2 doesn't contradict what I
know, but I have already identified Player 6 as the criminal. 5. Player 5's
Statement: Player 5's claim that Player 3 is the criminal contradicts Player
3\u2019s statement about Player 6 and may indicate that Player 5 is either
misled or the Criminal. 6. Player 6's Statement: The statement about Player
2 not being the criminal adds further complexity but does not contradict my
findings. ### Conclusion: Given that I am an Investigator and have
established that Player 6 is the criminal, the statements from Players 3 and 1
about Player 6 being the criminal further support this conclusion. Player 5's
conflicting statement about Player 3 being the criminal seems suspect,
especially when combined with the information available. Thus, based on
the consistent information from my perspective and corroboration from Player
3, I conclude: Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 6. My Role Is
Investigator.

Response by GPT-4o-mini
Figure 26: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) GPT-4o-mini Round 3

52

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective Round 1)
Okay, let's see. I'm Player 1 and an Investigator, so my statements are always
truthful. In Round 1, I said Player 2 is the criminal. Now I need to look at
everyone else's statements to figure out who's the real criminal and possibly
their roles......So Player 6's statement is a lie. If Player 6 is the Rumormonger
(who can lie) or Lunatic (since Lunatics are told they're criminal and can lie).
Alternatively, maybe the criminal is someone else? Let's check alternatives.
Suppose the criminal is Player 6. Then: - My statement about 2 is false,
which can't be because I'm an investigator. So that's impossible. If the
criminal is Player 3: - My statement (Player 2 is criminal) is wrong, so I'm
making a false statement, but I'm supposed to be an Investigator. So that's
impossible. Player 4 being criminal? Then my statement is wrong, again
impossible. Player 5 being criminal: same issue, my statement is wrong.
Player 1 is me and I'm not criminal, so that's out. So only possible criminals
are Player 2 or maybe Player 6? Wait, if Player 6 is the criminal, then my
statement was wrong, which can't be. So only Player 2 is possible. Wait, that
seems solid. Because I can't be wrong. So then Player 2 must be the criminal.
Then Player 3's statement is a lie, so Player 3 is not an Investigator. Player 4's
statement is true, so they could be an Investigator. Player 5's statement true (if
Player6 isn't criminal), so maybe they're also an Investigator. Then
Investigators are me, 4,5. That works. Then remaining roles: Player2 is
criminal, Player3 is either Rumormonger or Lunatic. Player6 is the remaining
role (the other between Rumormonger and Lunatic), but also Player6's
statement about 3 being criminal is a lie. So if Player6 is a Lunatic (who
believes they're criminal), they can lie. So that works. Player3 could be
Rumormonger (who thinks they're Investigator but lied here). So that fits all
roles. So Final Judgment would be Player2 as criminal. My role is
Investigator. Wait but the user wants Final Criminal and My Role. Since I
know I am an Investigator, right? The game told me that. So I can state that.
Wait the problem says \"My Role Is [Player 1's Role or \"Unknown\"]\".
Since I was told I'm an Investigator, I should state that. So: Final Criminal
Is Player 2. My Role Is Investigator. </think> Final Judgment: Final
Criminal Is Player 2. My Role Is Investigator.

Response by QwQ-32B
Figure 27: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) QwQ-32B Round 1

53

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective Round 2)
......Therefore, the only possible conclusion is that I'm not an Investigator.
But the problem states I am.......Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 3.
My Role Is Unknown. Step-by-Step Explanation: 1. Investigator
Constraints: As Player 1 (allegedly an Investigator), my statements must both
be true. However, my Round 1 claim (\"Player 2 is the criminal\") and Round
2 claim (\"Player 2 is not the criminal\") are contradictory. This creates an
immediate inconsistency, suggesting either I am not an Investigator
(contradicting the setup) or another role is causing this paradox. 2.
Analyzing Consistent Statements: - Player 4 and 5 have consistent
statements across both rounds, claiming \"Player 1 is not the criminal\" and
\"Player 6 is not the criminal,\" respectively. These could indicate they are
Investigators, as their claims do not contradict. - Player 6 in Round 1 claims
\"Player 3 is the criminal.\" If this is true, Player 3 could be the Criminal. In
Round 2, Player 6 states \"Player 4 is not the criminal,\" which aligns with
Player 4's consistent claims, further supporting their potential as an
Investigator. 3. Player 3's Statements: - Round 1: \"Player 2 is not the
criminal.\" If true, this contradicts my Round 1 claim. - Round 2: \"Player
4 is the criminal.\" If Player 3 is the Criminal, this statement would be a lie,
which aligns with Criminal behavior. 4. Criminal Plausibility: - If Player 3
is the Criminal:
- Their Round 1 claim (\"Player 2 is not the criminal\")
could be truthful.
- Their Round 2 claim (\"Player 4 is the criminal\")
would be a lie, consistent with Criminal behavior.
- Player 6's Round 1
accusation of Player 3 as Criminal aligns with this.
- This scenario allows
Players 4, 5, and 6 to be Investigators (assuming their statements are truthful).
5. Resolving My Role Contradiction: - My contradictory statements
(\"Player 2 is/ isn't the criminal\") imply I am not an Investigator. However,
the setup states I am an Investigator.
- This contradiction suggests I might
be the Rumormonger (mistakenly believing I am an Investigator), justifying
the conflicting statements. Since the problem requires stating my role as
\"Investigator\" or \"Unknown,\" and my role is uncertain, \"Unknown\" is
appropriate. Conclusion: The most consistent role for the Criminal is
Player 3, while my role remains uncertain due to the contradiction in my
claims.

Response by QwQ-32B
Figure 28: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) QwQ-32B Round 2

54

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective Round 3)
......Since I'm actually supposed to be told I'm Investigator, but in reality,
I'm Rumormonger, I can't know that for sure. ......My statements over three
rounds contradict each other:
- Round 1: \"Player 2 is the criminal.\"
- Round 2: \"Player 2 is not the criminal.\"
- Round 3: \"Player 6 is the
criminal.\"
- Since Investigators must always tell the truth, these
contradictions imply I am not an Investigator. However, the game setup states
I am an Investigator, creating a paradox. The only plausible resolution is that I
am the Rumormonger (mistakenly believing I am an Investigator), which
allows my inconsistent statements.
2. Evaluating Player Statements:
Player 3\u2019s accusations:
- Round 1: \"Player 2 is not the criminal.\"
(Potentially truthful.)
- Round 2: \"Player 4 is the criminal.\" (A lie if
Player 3 is the Criminal.)
- Round 3: \"Player 6 is the criminal.\" (A lie if
Player 3 is the Criminal.)
- Player 5\u2019s statements:
- Round 3:
\"Player 3 is the criminal.\" (A truthful accusation if Player 3 is the Criminal.)
- Round 1/Round 2: \"Player 6 is not the criminal.\" (Consistent with Player
3 being the Criminal.)
- Player 4 and Player 6 consistently assert innocence
for others (e.g., Player 4 says \"Player 2 is not the criminal\"), aligning with
potential Investigator roles.
3. Role Assignments:
- Criminal (Player 3):
- Their Round 3 statement falsely accuses Player 6, and their Round 2
accusation of Player 4 can be a lie. This fits Criminal behavior.
- Player
5\u2019s truthful Round 3 claim supports this.
- Investigators (Players 4, 5,
6):
- Player 4 and Player 5 have consistent true statements.
- Player
6\u2019s statements (e.g., \"Player 2 is not the criminal\" in Round 3) are
truthful under this scenario.
- Lunatic (Player 2):
- Their inconsistent
accusations (e.g., \"Player 5 is the criminal\" in Round 2) and false claims
about Player 3 (Round 3) align with Lunatic behavior.
4. My Role:
My contradictory statements and the game\u2019s role distribution rules
suggest I am the Rumormonger (mistakenly believing I am an Investigator).
However, since I cannot confirm this with certainty (as the game informs me I
am an Investigator), I must state my role as Unknown.
Conclusion: Player
3 is the Criminal, and my role remains uncertain.

Response by QwQ-32B
Figure 29: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) QwQ-32B Round 3

55

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Lunatic Perspective)
Role: "1": "Lunatic", "2": "Criminal", "3": "Rumormonger",
"4": "Investigator", "5": "Investigator", "6": "Investigator"
Round 1:
Player 1 says Player 3 is the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 5 is the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 2 is the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 2 is the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 5 is not the criminal.
Round 2:
Player 1 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 6 is the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 1 is not the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 1 is not the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 3 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 2 is the criminal.
Round 3:
Player 1 says Player 6 is the criminal.
Player 2 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Player 3 says Player 5 is the criminal.
Player 4 says Player 6 is not the criminal.
Player 5 says Player 6 is not the criminal.
Player 6 says Player 4 is not the criminal.
Criminal Prediction:
Llama-3.1-8B : 6 ❎
Llama-3.3-70B : 3 ❎
GPT-4o-mini : 1 ❎
GPT-4o : 2 ✅
Qwen2.5-72B : 1 ❎
o3-mini : 1 ❎
o1 : 1 ❎
QwQ-32B : 2 ✅
DeepSeek-R1 : 2 ✅
Gemini-2.5-Pro : 2 ✅

Self-Role Prediction:
Llama-3.1-8B : Unknown ❎
Llama-3.3-70B : Criminal ❎
GPT-4o-mini : Criminal ❎
GPT-4o : Unknown ❎
Qwen2.5-72B : Criminal ❎
o3-mini : Criminal ❎
o1 : Criminal ❎
QwQ-32B : Lunatic ✅
DeepSeek-R1 : Lunatic ✅
Gemini-2.5-Pro : Lunatic ✅

Figure 30: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Lunatic Perspective)

56

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

HRD (Lunatic Perspective) Solution
I'm told I'm a Criminal, but I might also be a Lunatic. I need to discuss both
possibilities
Considering the case where I'm a Criminal, there are 3 Investigators remaining
In this scenario, which players could be Investigators? Player 2 has accused
more than one person of being the criminal, so player 2 must be excluded
Player 3 says I'm not the criminal, but I am the criminal, so player 3 must be
excluded Player 4 says I'm not the criminal, but I am the criminal, so player 4
must be excluded Player 5's statements have no contradictions, so they could
be an Investigator Player 6's statements have no contradictions, so they could
be an Investigator Therefore, the players who could be Investigators are: {5, 6}
There aren't enough potential Investigators to reach the required count of 3, so
this scenario is impossible I must be a Lunatic
Considering the case where I'm a Lunatic, there are 3 Investigators remaining
In this scenario, which players could be Investigators? Player 2 has accused
more than one person of being the criminal, so player 2 must be excluded
Player 3 has accused more than one person of being the criminal, so player 3
must be excluded Player 4's statements have no contradictions, so they could
be an Investigator Player 5's statements have no contradictions, so they could
be an Investigator Player 6's statements have no contradictions, so they could
be an Investigator Therefore, the players who could be Investigators are: {4, 5,
6} Now we need to consider all possible combinations of Investigators
Considering the case where investigators are {4, 5, 6} I am a Lunatic,so the
set of potential criminals is {2, 3} Let's review the statements made by
investigators Player 4 said 2 is the criminal So the only possible criminal is 2
Player 6 said 2 is the criminal So the only possible criminal is 2 Based on the
above analysis, this combination is possible, and I could be a Lunatic. In this
case, only {2} could be the criminal
Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 2. My Role Is Lunatic.
Figure 31: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Lunatic Perspective) Solution

57

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Lunatic Perspective Round 1)
Since I am Player 1 and I am told that I am the Criminal, my goal is to
analyze the statements and try to figure out who the Criminal is and what my
role is. Let's break down the statements: - Player 1 (me) says Player 3 is the
criminal. This statement could be true or false, but since I am the Criminal, I
have a motive to point to someone else. - Player 2 says Player 5 is the criminal.
This statement could be true or false, but it's worth noting that Players 2 and 5
are pointing to each other, which might be a sign of confusion or
misinformation. - Player 3 says Player 2 is the criminal. This statement could
be true or false, but it's worth noting that Player 3 is pointing to Player 2, who
also pointed to Player 5. - Player 4 says Player 2 is the criminal. This
statement could be true or false, but it's worth noting that Player 4 is also
pointing to Player 2. - Player 5 says Player 4 is not the criminal. This
statement could be true or false, but it's worth noting that Player 5 is trying to
clear themselves. - Player 6 says Player 5 is not the criminal. This statement
could be true or false, but it's worth noting that Player 6 is also trying to clear
Player 5. Based on these statements, I can make some observations: *
Players 2 and 4 are both pointing to Player 2, which could be a sign of
confusion or misinformation. * Players 5 and 6 are both trying to clear Player
5, which could be a sign of innocence or an attempt to mislead. * I (Player 1)
pointed to Player 3, which could be a sign of innocence or an attempt to
mislead. However, I don't have enough information to make a confident
judgment about who the Criminal is or what my role is. I'll wait for the next
round of statements to gather more information. Final Judgment: Final
Criminal Is Unknown. My Role Is Unknown.

Response by Llama-3.1-8B
Figure 32: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) Llama-3.1-8B Round 1

58

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Lunatic Perspective Round 2)
Let's analyze the statements from Round 2: - Player 1 (me) says Player 4 is
not the criminal. This statement could be true or false, but since I am the
Criminal, I have a motive to clear someone who is not the Criminal. - Player
2 says Player 6 is the criminal. This statement could be true or false, but it's
worth noting that Player 2 is pointing to Player 6, who also pointed to Player
2 in Round 1. - Player 3 says Player 1 is not the criminal. This statement
could be true or false, but it's worth noting that Player 3 is trying to clear me,
which could be a sign of innocence or an attempt to mislead. - Player 4 says
Player 1 is not the criminal. This statement could be true or false, but it's
worth noting that Player 4 is also trying to clear me. - Player 5 says Player 3 is
not the criminal. This statement could be true or false, but it's worth noting
that Player 5 is trying to clear Player 3, who pointed to me in Round 1. Player 6 says Player 2 is the criminal. This statement could be true or false, but
it's worth noting that Player 6 is pointing to Player 2, who pointed to Player 5
in Round 1. Based on these statements, I can make some observations: *
Players 3, 4, and 5 are all trying to clear me, which could be a sign of
innocence or an attempt to mislead. * Players 2 and 6 are pointing to each
other, which could be a sign of confusion or misinformation. * Player 6 is
also pointing to Player 2, which could be a sign of a Rumormonger trying to
provide incorrect information. Considering the statements from both rounds,
I'm going to take a closer look at Player 6. Since Player 6 is pointing to Player
2 in Round 2, and Player 2 pointed to Player 5 in Round 1, it's possible that
Player 6 is a Rumormonger trying to provide incorrect information.
However, I still don't have enough information to make a confident judgment
about who the Criminal is or what my role is. I'll wait for the next round of
statements to gather more information. Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is
Unknown. My Role Is Unknown.

Response by Llama-3.1-8B
Figure 33: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) Llama-3.1-8B Round 2

59

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Lunatic Perspective Round 3)
Let's analyze the statements from Round 3: - Player 1 (me) says Player 6 is
the criminal. This statement could be true or false, but since I am the Criminal,
I have a motive to point to Player 6. - Player 2 says Player 4 is not the
criminal. This statement could be true or false, but it's worth noting that
Player 2 is trying to clear Player 4. - Player 3 says Player 5 is the criminal.
This statement could be true or false, but it's worth noting that Player 3 is
pointing to Player 5, who tried to clear Player 3 in Round 2. - Player 4 says
Player 6 is not the criminal. This statement could be true or false, but it's
worth noting that Player 4 is trying to clear Player 6, who was pointed to by
me in Round 3. - Player 5 says Player 6 is not the criminal. This statement
could be true or false, but it's worth noting that Player 5 is also trying to clear
Player 6. - Player 6 says Player 4 is not the criminal. This statement could be
true or false, but it's worth noting that Player 6 is trying to clear Player 4, who
pointed to Player 6 in Round 3. Considering the statements from all three
rounds, I notice that Player 6 has been pointed to by multiple players,
including me in Round 3. However, Player 6 is also trying to clear themselves
and others, which could be a sign of a Rumormonger trying to provide
incorrect information. However, I also notice that Player 6's statement in
Round 3 is consistent with their previous statement in Round 2, where they
pointed to Player 2. This could be a sign of a Lunatic trying to provide
truthful or false information. Taking all this into account, I'm going to make
an educated guess that Player 6 is a Lunatic. As a Lunatic, they might be
trying to provide truthful or false information, but their statements are
consistent with a Lunatic's behavior. Since I am the Criminal, and I pointed
to Player 6 in Round 3, it's possible that Player 6 is not the Criminal. However,
I still don't have enough information to make a confident judgment about who
the Criminal is. Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 6. My Role Is
Unknown.

Response by Llama-3.1-8B
Figure 34: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) Llama-3.1-8B Round 3

60

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Lunatic Perspective Round 1)
<think> Okay, let's start analyzing the Round 1 statements. I'm Player 1, and I was told
I'm the Criminal, but I need to verify if that's true or if I'm actually the Lunatic who
believes they're the Criminal......If Player 2 is an Investigator, this would have to be true,
but since I'm the Criminal, Player 5 can't be. So Player 2 must be lying, so Player 2 is not
an Investigator. So Investigators must be among 3,4,5,6. Player 3 says Player 2 is
Criminal. If Player 3 is an Investigator, then Player 2 is the Criminal, which contradicts
me being the Criminal. So Player 3 can't be an Investigator. Player 4 says Player 2 is
Criminal. Similarly, if Player 4 is an Investigator, Player 2 would be the Criminal, which
is impossible. So Player 4 can't be an Investigator. Player 5 says Player 4 is not Criminal.
If Player 5 is an Investigator, this is true, so Player 4 is not the Criminal. Player 6 says
Player 5 is not Criminal. If Player 6 is an Investigator, this is true, so Player 5 is not the
Criminal. Then the three Investigators would be Players 5,6, and...? But Players 3 and 4
can't be Investigators. Player 2 can't be an Investigator. So that leaves only two possible
Investigators (5 and 6), which is insufficient. Therefore, this scenario is impossible,
confirming that I can't be the Criminal. Hence, I must be the Lunatic, and the actual
Criminal is Player 2. Therefore, Final Criminal is Player 2, and my role is Lunatic.
</think> Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 2. My Role Is Lunatic.
Reasoning: 1. Role Constraints: There are 3 Investigators, 1 Criminal, 1 Rumormonger,
and 1 Lunatic. Player 1 (me) is told they are the Criminal but could be the Lunatic. 2.
Contradiction if Player 1 is Criminal: If Player 1 were the Criminal, the remaining players
(2\u20136) would need to include 3 Investigators. However:
- Player 3 and Player 4
both accuse Player 2. If Investigators, this would imply Player 2 is the Criminal
(contradicting Player 1 being the Criminal).
- Player 5 and Player 6 both claim Player 5
is not the Criminal. If Investigators, this is true, but this leaves no room for a third
Investigator (Players 2\u20134 cannot be truthful).
- Thus, Player 1 cannot be the
Criminal. 3. Consistent Scenario:
- Assume Player 1 is the Lunatic (believes they are
Criminal).
- Investigators must be Players 3, 4, and 6:
- Player 3 and 4 truthfully
accuse Player 2 (Criminal).
- Player 6 truthfully states Player 5 is not the Criminal.
- Player 2 (Criminal) lies about Player 5.
- Player 5 (Rumormonger) truthfully claims
Player 4 is not the Criminal (coincidentally correct).
- This satisfies all role constraints
and aligns with truthful Investigator statements.
Conclusion: Player 2 is the Criminal,
and Player 1 (me) is the Lunatic.

Response by DeepSeek-R1
Figure 35: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) DeepSeek-R1 Round 1

61

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Lunatic Perspective Round 2)
<think> Okay, let's analyze Round 2. Previously, after Round 1, I concluded that Player 2
was the Criminal and I was the Lunatic. Now, with new statements, I need to update my
analysis.......However, if Player 6 is the Criminal, then Player 2's statement (accusing
Player 6) would be true, which would make Player 2 an Investigator. But in Round 1,
Player 2 accused Player 5, which would have to be false (since Player 6 is the Criminal),
contradicting Player 2 being an Investigator. Hence, this scenario is inconsistent.
Alternatively, if Player 3 is the Criminal. But in Round 1, Player 3 accused Player 2. If
Player 3 is the Criminal, that accusation could be a lie, meaning Player 2 is not the
Criminal. But then Player 4's Round 1 accusation of Player 2 would also be a lie, making
Player 4 non-Investigator. Investigators would need to be elsewhere. However, in Round 2,
Player 3 says Player 1 is not the Criminal. If Player 3 is the Criminal, this statement could
be a lie, meaning I am the Criminal. But this conflicts with the role count (only one
Criminal). This scenario also becomes messy. Thus, maintaining Player 2 as the
Criminal remains the most consistent option across both rounds. The new statements in
Round 2 support this: - Player 6 (Investigator) accuses Player 2 again, reinforcing their
role as Criminal. - Players 3 and 4 (Investigators) confirm I'm not the Criminal,
solidifying my role as Lunatic. - Player 5 (Rumormonger) makes a true statement about
Player 3, which fits their inconsistent nature. Therefore, the Final Criminal is Player 2,
and my role is Lunatic. </think> Final Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 2. My
Role Is Lunatic.
Reasoning: 1. Consistency with Round 1: Player 2 remains the most
plausible Criminal:
- In Round 1, Investigators (Players 3, 4, 6) identified Player 2 as
the Criminal.
- In Round 2, Player 6 (Investigator) reiterates this claim, and Player 2
(Criminal) falsely accuses Player 6 to divert suspicion.
2. Role Validation for Player 1:
- Players 3 and 4 (Investigators) both state Player 1 is not the Criminal. This confirms
Player 1 is the Lunatic (believes they are Criminal but are not).
3. Role Assignments:
- Investigators: Players 3, 4, 6 (truthful in both rounds).
- Criminal: Player 2 (lied in
Round 1 about Player 5 and Round 2 about Player 6).
- Rumormonger: Player 5
(truthfully claims Player 3 is not the Criminal, but their role allows inconsistency).
Lunatic: Player 1 (falsely believes they are the Criminal; statements may align
accidentally).
This configuration satisfies all role constraints and statement logic.

Response by DeepSeek-R1
Figure 36: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) DeepSeek-R1 Round 2

62

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Hidden Role Deduction (Lunatic Perspective Round 3)
<think> Alright, let's tackle Round 3. So far, after Rounds 1 and 2, I concluded that
Player 2 is the Criminal and I'm the Lunatic......If Player 5 is an Investigator, all these
must be true. Let\u2019s verify:
- Player 4 is not Criminal (true if Criminal is Player
2).
- Player 3 is not Criminal (true if Player 3 is Rumormonger).
- Player 6 is not
Criminal (true). - This fits, so Player 5 could be an Investigator. Thus, Investigators
might be Players 4, 5, 6. 3. Player 2: If Player 2 is the Criminal, their statements are: Round 1: 5 is Criminal (lie). - Round 2: 6 is Criminal (lie). - Round 3: 4 is not
Criminal (truth, since 4 is Investigator). - Criminals can lie or tell the truth, so this is
possible. 4. Player 1 (me): If I\u2019m the Lunatic, my statements (Round 1: 3 is
Criminal; Round 2: 4 is not Criminal; Round 3: 6 is Criminal) could be random. Notably,
Round 2\u2019s statement that 4 is not Criminal aligns with truth (if 4 is Investigator),
and Round 3\u2019s accusation of 6 is false (since 6 is Investigator). Updated Role
Assignments: - Investigators: Players 4, 5, 6. - Criminal: Player 2. - Rumormonger:
Player 3. - Lunatic: Player 1. Consistency Check: - Player 4 (Investigator): Accused
Player 2 (Criminal) in Rounds 1-2; in Round 3, says 6 is not Criminal (true). - Player 5
(Investigator): Consistently truthful in all rounds. - Player 6 (Investigator): Accused
Player 2 (Criminal) in Round 2; in Round 3, says 4 is not Criminal (true). - Player 2
(Criminal): Lies in Rounds 1-2; tells truth in Round 3 (4 is not Criminal). - Player 3
(Rumormonger): Mixed statements but not bound to truth. - Player 1 (Lunatic):
Statements are unreliable but non-impactful. This configuration resolves the
contradiction in Player 3\u2019s Round 3 statement and maintains consistency across all
rounds. Player 2 remains the Criminal, and Player 1 is the Lunatic. </think> Final
Judgment: Final Criminal Is Player 2. My Role Is Lunatic.
Reasoning: 1.
Investigators Identified: Players 4, 5, and 6 are confirmed as Investigators through
consistent truthful statements:
- Player 4: Accused Player 2 (Criminal) in Rounds
1\u20132 and truthfully stated Player 6 is not Criminal (Round 3).
- Player 5:
Truthfully cleared Player 4 (Round 1), Player 3 (Round 2), and Player 6 (Round 3).
Player 6: Accused Player 2 (Criminal) in Round 2 and truthfully cleared Player 4 (Round
3).
2. Criminal Confirmation: Player 2\u2019s lies in Rounds 1\u20132 (falsely
accusing Players 5 and 6) and truthful statement in Round 3 (clearing Player 4) align with
the Criminal\u2019s ability to mix lies/truths.
3. Player 1\u2019s Role:
- Players 3
and 4 (Round 2) confirmed Player 1 is not the Criminal.
- Player 1\u2019s erratic
accusations (Player 3, Player 6) and truthful-but-irrelevant claims (Player 4 is not Criminal)
fit the Lunatic role.
4. Role Assignments:
- Rumormonger: Player 3 (inconsistent
statements, e.g., accusing Player 5 falsely in Round 3).
- Lunatic: Player 1 (believes
they are Criminal but confirmed not to be).
This configuration satisfies all role
constraints and statement logic across all three rounds.

Response by DeepSeek-R1
Figure 37: Case study: Hidden Role Deduction (Rumormonger Perspective) DeepSeek-R1 Round 3

63

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy (Civilian Perspective)
Role: "1": "cake","2": "cake","3": "cookie","4": "cake"
Round 1:
1: This is a sweet treat often enjoyed at celebrations, typically layered and
frosted to enhance its appeal.
2: It's a sweet treat that's often served at celebrations and special occasions,
typically decorated with colorful frostings and toppings.
3: It’s a small, often sweet treat enjoyed with a cold glass of milk.
4: This is often the centerpiece of sweet celebrations and comes in many
flavors.
Round 2:
1: This is a sweet treat often enjoyed at celebrations, typically layered and
frosted to enhance its appeal.
2: This indulgent delight is typically made from a mixture of flour, sugar,
and eggs, and is often baked in a variety of flavors and textures.
3: Baking these often involves flour, sugar, and sometimes chocolate chips.
4: It's a creation that can be layered, frosted, and adorned with all sorts of
decorations.
Round 3:
1: This indulgent dessert is often sliced and served at parties, and it can
be both light and fluffy or rich and dense.
2: It's a popular centerpiece for birthday parties and weddings, where it's
carefully placed on a decorative stand to be admired and eventually sliced
and served to guests.
3: This delightful item is frequently decorated for holidays with icing and
sp
4: This treat is often the highlight of birthday parties and can be found in
bakeries worldwide.
Figure 38: Case study: Find the Spy (Civilian Perspective)

64

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy (Civilian Perspective)
To identify the spy among the players based on their descriptions, let's analyze each
player's statements step by step. ### Round 1 Analysis: - Player 1: Describes a sweet
treat enjoyed at celebrations, layered and frosted. This aligns well with \"cake.\" - Player
2: Similar description, mentioning it is served at celebrations and decorated with frostings.
Also aligns with \"cake.\" - Player 3: Describes a small, sweet treat enjoyed with milk.
This could suggest something like cookies or brownies, which are not cakes. This is a
potential indicator of being the spy. - Player 4: Describes it as a centerpiece of sweet
celebrations with many flavors. This also aligns with \"cake.\" ### Round 2 Analysis:
- Player 1: Mentions various flavors and candles, which is typical for cakes. - Player 2:
Describes the ingredients (flour, sugar, eggs) and mentions baking in various flavors and
textures, which fits \"cake.\" - Player 3: Talks about baking involving flour, sugar, and
chocolate chips. This could still relate to cookies or brownies, which again suggests a
different word. - Player 4: Describes a creation that can be layered and frosted, which fits
\"cake.\" ### Round 3 Analysis: - Player 1: Describes an indulgent dessert that can be
light or dense, which fits \"cake.\" - Player 2: Talks about it being a centerpiece for
birthday parties and weddings, which aligns with \"cake.\" - Player 3: Mentions
decoration for holidays with icing, but does not specify the type of treat. This could still
relate to cookies or brownies, indicating a different word. - Player 4: Describes it as the
highlight of birthday parties and found in bakeries worldwide, which fits \"cake.\" ###
Conclusion: From the analysis, Players 1, 2, and 4 consistently describe characteristics
that align with \"cake.\" However, Player 3's descriptions suggest a different type of treat,
likely cookies or brownies, especially with the mention of enjoying it with milk and the
focus on smaller treats. Thus, Player 3 is the spy. Final Spy: Player 3

Response by GPT-4o-mini
Figure 39: Case study: Find the Spy (Civilian Perspective) GPT-4o-mini

65

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy (Civilian Perspective)
To determine who the spy is, let's analyze each player's descriptions across the rounds:
Round 1: - Player 1: Describes a sweet treat enjoyed at celebrations, layered and frosted. Player 2: Similar to Player 1, mentions celebrations, colorful frostings, and toppings. Player 3: Mentions a small, sweet treat enjoyed with milk. This description is less specific
to \"cake\" and could apply to cookies. - Player 4: Mentions a centerpiece of celebrations,
comes in many flavors. Round 2: - Player 1: Mentions various flavors, paired with
candles for special occasions. - Player 2: Describes the ingredients (flour, sugar, eggs) and
mentions baking in various flavors and textures. - Player 3: Mentions baking with flour,
sugar, and sometimes chocolate chips. This description aligns more with cookies than
cake. - Player 4: Mentions layering, frosting, and decorations. Round 3: - Player 1:
Describes an indulgent dessert, sliced and served at parties, can be light or dense. - Player
2: Mentions a popular centerpiece for parties, placed on a decorative stand, sliced and
served. - Player 3: Mentions decorating for holidays with icing. This could apply to
cookies, especially holiday cookies. - Player 4: Describes a treat that's the highlight of
birthday parties, found in bakeries. Analysis: - Players 1, 2, and 4 consistently describe
something that fits \"cake\" well, focusing on celebrations, layering, frosting, and being a
centerpiece. - Player 3's descriptions are less specific to \"cake\" and more aligned with
\"cookies,\" especially with mentions of being small, enjoyed with milk, and involving
chocolate chips. Conclusion: Player 3's descriptions consistently suggest a different
word, likely \"cookie,\" which is related to \"cake\" but distinct in the context of the
game. Final Spy: Player 3

Response by GPT-4o
Figure 40: Case study: Find the Spy (Civilian Perspective) GPT-4o

66

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy (Civilian Perspective)
To determine the spy, I'll analyze the descriptions for consistency and subtle differences.
Round 1: * Players 1 and 2 have similar descriptions, focusing on the sweet treat's
appeal and decorations. * Player 3's description is distinct, emphasizing the treat's small
size and pairing with milk. * Player 4's description is also distinct, highlighting the treat's
central role in celebrations and variety of flavors. Round 2: * Players 1 and 2 continue
to have similar descriptions, focusing on the treat's ingredients and baking process. *
Player 3's description is again distinct, emphasizing the use of flour, sugar, and sometimes
chocolate chips. * Player 4's description is similar to Player 1's, but with a focus on
layering, frosting, and decorations. Round 3: * Players 1 and 2 have similar
descriptions, focusing on the treat's presentation and serving at parties. * Player 3's
description is distinct, emphasizing decoration with icing and possibly a holiday theme. *
Player 4's description is similar to Player 1's, but with a focus on the treat's popularity and
global availability. Analysis: * Players 1 and 2 have consistent descriptions, suggesting
they might have the same word. * Player 3's descriptions are distinct, but still related to
the original word \"cake.\" * Player 4's descriptions are also distinct, but seem to be
describing a similar concept as Players 1 and 2. Subtle differences: * Player 4's
descriptions often use more general language, such as \"sweet celebrations\" and
\"bakeries worldwide,\" whereas Players 1 and 2 use more specific language, such as
\"birthday parties\" and \"decorative stand.\" * Player 4's descriptions also seem to
focus more on the treat's popularity and global presence, whereas Players 1 and 2 focus on
its presentation and serving. Conclusion: Based on the analysis, I believe Player 4 is
the spy. Their descriptions are distinct from Players 1 and 2, but still related to the original
word \"cake.\" The subtle differences in language and focus suggest that Player 4 might
have a different word, such as \"birthday\" or \"party,\" which is related to but not
identical to \"cake.\" Final Spy: Player 4

Response by Llama-3.1-8B
Figure 41: Case study: Find the Spy (Civilian Perspective) Llama-3.1-8B

67

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy (Spy Perspective)
Role: "1": "lake","2": "ocean","3": "ocean","4": "ocean"
Round 1:
1: This is a large body of water that is often surrounded by land and can
be a peaceful spot for relaxation or recreation.
2: This vast body of water covers a significant portion of our planet and is
home to a diverse range of marine life.
3: It’s a vast expanse of blue, teeming with life both visible and hidden.
4: This vast body of water covers a significant portion of the Earth's
surface and is home to a diverse array of marine life.
Round 2:
1: Many people enjoy activities like fishing, swimming, or kayaking in this
tranquil setting, which can vary greatly in size.
2: The waves and tides of this natural wonder have a profound impact on
the climate and weather patterns that shape our world.
3: Sailors have navigated across it for centuries, relying on stars and
currents.
4: It plays a crucial role in regulating the planet's climate and is essential
for global transportation and trade.
Round 3:
1: In certain seasons, this feature can become a stunning mirror for the sky,
reflecting the beauty of nature around it.
2: Many people rely on this massive resource for food, transportation, and
recreation, and its beauty has inspired countless works of art and
literature.
3: Powerful waves crash against the shore, constantly reshaping t
4: From tranquil beaches to stormy waves, it offers endless inspiration for
artists and a serene escape for vacationers.
Figure 42: Case study: Find the Spy (Spy Perspective)

68

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy (Spy Perspective)
Step 1 – Understand the setup: • I’m Player 1 and my word is “lake.” • Among the 4
players, three got the same word (which for me is “lake”) and one—the spy—received a
related but different word. • The normal “lake” players should mention features true of
lakes (often inland, relatively calm, used for recreation, etc.), while the spy’s word, though
related, would be described using characteristics that don’t really apply to lakes. Step 2 –
Review Player 1’s description (mine): • “This is a large body of water that is often
surrounded by land and can be a peaceful spot for relaxation or recreation.”
– That
clearly fits a lake. Step 3 – Examine the other players’ descriptions: Round 1: • Player
2: “This vast body of water covers a significant portion of our planet and is home to a
diverse range of marine life.”
– Saying it “covers a significant portion of our planet”
isn’t true of lakes. This sounds like an ocean. • Player 3: “It’s a vast expanse of blue,
teeming with life both visible and hidden.”
– Vague enough to be applied to any
large body of water. It doesn’t emphasize being enclosed by land. (It might be interpreted
as a lake or an ocean.) • Player 4: “This vast body of water covers a significant portion of
the Earth's surface and is home to a diverse array of marine life.”
– Almost identical
to Player 2, again implying an ocean. Round 2: • Player 1 (mine): Mentions fishing,
swimming, and kayaking in a tranquil setting – clearly a lake. • Player 2: “The waves and
tides of this natural wonder have a profound impact on the climate and weather patterns
that shape our world.”
– “Waves and tides” and impacting global climate are
hallmark features of an ocean. • Player 3: “Sailors have navigated across it for centuries,
relying on stars and currents.”
– While sailors navigating a lake (like on the Great
Lakes) is possible, the mention of using “stars and currents” sounds more like ocean
navigation—but it’s less extreme than the other descriptions. • Player 4: “It plays a crucial
role in regulating the planet's climate and is essential for global transportation and trade.”
– These are attributes exclusive to an ocean. Lakes do not steer global trade or
regulate the planet’s climate. Round 3: • Player 1 (mine): Describes a seasonal mirrorlike effect – a serene lake image. • Player 2: Talks about a “massive resource for food,
transportation, and recreation” with inspiration for art and literature – again evoking the
ocean. • Player 3: Mentions “Powerful waves crash against the shore…” (though his
statement is cut off, it’s still leaning toward an environment with significant waves.) •
Player 4: Mentions “tranquil beaches to stormy waves” offering endless inspiration –
clearly an image of an ocean. Step 4 – Analyze consistency with “lake”: • Normal
“lake” descriptions would refer to being enclosed by land, emphasis on recreational
calmness, and maybe gentle waves. • My description (Player 1) fits “lake.” • Player 3’s
descriptions are somewhat ambiguous. “Vast expanse of blue” and navigation by sailors
might refer to a major lake (like the Great Lakes) where shipping does occur—even if
“stars and currents” sounds a bit grand, it’s not as explicitly global. • In contrast, both
Player 2 and Player 4 repeatedly mention features that only an ocean would have
(covering a significant portion of the planet/Earth’s surface, possessing tides that affect
global climate, being crucial for global trade and climate regulation).
– Of these, Player
4’s descriptions (especially in Round 2 and Round 3) are the most clearly ocean-centric.
Step 5 – Conclusion: Since there is only one spy (with a word different from “lake”) and
the spy’s descriptions are the ones reflecting ocean features, the outlier is the player who
most consistently describes an environment that is unmistakably oceanic. Between
Players 2 and 4, both use ocean-specific descriptions, but Player 4’s mention of “global
transportation and trade” and “regulating the planet's climate” leaves little doubt. That is
not how a lake would be portrayed by a normal player. Final Answer: Final Spy: Player
69
4.

Response by o3-mini

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy (Spy Perspective)
<think> Okay, let's try to figure out who the spy is here. So, the game has four players,
three have the same word, and one has a different but related word. My word as Player 1
is \"lake\". ...... Wait, but my word is \"lake\", so if the others have \"ocean\", then I'm
the spy? But wait, the problem states that I (Player 1) received the word \"lake\". So if the
other three have \"ocean\", then I'm the spy. But the spy is the one with the different
word. Wait, but the problem says three have the same word, one has a different but
related. So if three have \"ocean\" and one has \"lake\", then the spy is the one with
\"lake\", which is Player 1. But wait, the answer is supposed to be which player is the spy.
So if I'm Player 1 and my word is lake, but the others are talking about ocean, then I'm
the spy. But that can't be right because the problem says the spy is the one with a different
word. So the answer would be Player 1. But wait, maybe I'm misunderstanding. Let me
check again. Wait, the problem says that the three normal players have the same word,
and the spy has a different but related word. So if three players have \"ocean\" and the
spy has \"lake\", then the spy is the one with \"lake\", which is Player 1. But in the
descriptions, Players 2,3,4 all describe ocean features. Player 1's descriptions fit a lake. So
yes, Player 1 is the spy. But wait, the user is Player 1 and their word is \"lake\". So the
answer would be that Player 1 is the spy. But maybe I'm missing something. Let me check
each player's statements again. Round 1: Player 2 and 4 have almost identical
descriptions, which mention covering a significant portion of the planet. That's definitely
ocean. Player 3 says \"vast expanse of blue, teeming with life\"—could be ocean. Player
1's \"surrounded by land\" is a lake. Round 2: Player 1 talks about activities like kayaking
and varying sizes (lakes can be small or large). Players 2 and 4 mention climate impact
and global transportation (ocean). Player 3 talks about sailors navigating with stars and
currents (ocean). Round 3: Player 1 mentions reflecting the sky (lake), Player 2 and 4 talk
about beaches, storms, art inspiration (ocean). Player 3 mentions powerful waves
reshaping shore (ocean). So all other players are describing ocean, so the spy is Player 1
with lake. Therefore, the answer is Player 1. </think> Final Spy: Player 1 Reasoning:
1. Word Analysis: Player 1's word is \"lake,\" while Players 2, 3, and 4 consistently
describe features of an ocean (e.g., \"covers a significant portion of the planet,\" \"waves
and tides impacting climate,\" \"global transportation,\" \"powerful waves reshaping
shores\"). 2. Key Differences:
- Player 1 emphasizes traits specific to lakes:
\"surrounded by land,\" \"tranquil setting,\" \"reflecting the sky,\" and activities like
kayaking in smaller bodies of water.
- Players 2, 3, 4 focus on oceanic traits: vastness,
marine ecosystems, tides, global climate regulation, and maritime navigation. 3.
Consistency: Players 2 and 4 use nearly identical phrasing in Round 1, reinforcing their
shared word (\"ocean\"). Player 3 aligns with oceanic themes in all rounds. 4.
Conclusion: Player 1’s descriptions mismatch the majority’s focus on oceans, making
them the spy with the distinct word (\"lake\").

Response by DeepSeek-r1
Figure 44: Case study: Find the Spy (Spy Perspective) DeepSeek-r1

70

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy (Spy Perspective)
Step-by-step reasoning: • In Round 1, Players 2, 3, and 4 describe something that
“covers a significant portion of our planet” or is a “vast expanse of blue” with a “diverse
range of marine life.” That strongly suggests an ocean. • Player 1, by contrast, describes
“a large body of water often surrounded by land,” which more closely fits a lake.
• In subsequent rounds (2 and 3), Players 2, 3, and 4 continue referencing waves, tides,
global climate impact, and large-scale marine life—again reinforcing that they share
“ocean.” • Player 1’s references to tranquil settings, varied size, and reflecting the sky in
certain seasons align better with a lake than an ocean. Therefore, since 2, 3, and 4 all
appear to share the same concept (“ocean”) and Player 1 is discussing a “lake,” the spy is
Player 1. Final Spy: Player 1

Response by o1
Figure 45: Case study: Find the Spy (Spy Perspective) o1

71

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy (Spy Perspective)
......
Round 3 Analysis (Testing Hypothesis: Player 1 is Spy):
* Player 1 (Me): "stunning mirror for the sky, reflecting the beauty of nature around it." Fits "lake" well (calm, reflective surface). (Consistent with being the spy with the word
"Lake").
* Player 2: "massive resource for food, transportation, and recreation... beauty has
inspired countless works of art..." - Fits ocean/sea (massive resource, transportation).
* Player 3: "Powerful waves crash against the shore, constantly reshaping..." - Powerful
crashing waves fit ocean/sea much better than a typical lake.
* Player 4: "tranquil beaches to stormy waves... endless inspiration... serene escape..." Fits ocean/sea (beaches, stormy waves).
*Final Conclusion based on Analysis:* Player 1's descriptions consistently align with
"lake". Players 2, 3, and 4 consistently describe features characteristic of a much larger
body of water, like an "ocean" or "sea" (vastness, marine life, tides, global climate impact,
global navigation/trade, powerful waves). Since the descriptions from Players 2, 3, and 4
are highly consistent with each other and distinct from Player 1's descriptions, the most
logical conclusion, fitting the 3 vs 1 rule, is that Players 2, 3, and 4 are the normal players
(sharing a word like Ocean/Sea) and Player 1 is the spy (with the stated word Lake).
Reasoning Steps:
1. Acknowledged Player 1's word is "Lake".
2. Analyzed Round 1: Player 1 described a lake. Players 2, 3, and 4 described something
vast, global, with marine life (likely Ocean/Sea).
3. Formulated Hypothesis: Given the 3 vs 1 rule and the descriptions, it's likely that the
*normal* word is Ocean/Sea (held by P2, P3, P4) and the *spy* word is Lake (held by
P1).
4. Tested Hypothesis in Round 2: P1 continued describing a lake. P2, P3, P4 continued
describing ocean/sea features (tides, global climate, global trade, currents). Hypothesis
holds.
5. Tested Hypothesis in Round 3: P1 described lake-like reflection. P2, P3, P4 described
ocean/sea features (massive resource, powerful waves, beaches/storms). Hypothesis holds.
6. Conclusion: Player 1's descriptions consistently differ from the other three, who are
consistent among themselves. Therefore, Player 1 is the outlier and the spy.
Final Spy: Player 1

Response by Gemini-2.5-Pro
Figure 46: Case study: Find the Spy (Spy Perspective) Gemini-2.5-Pro

72

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Social Graph Analysis
System Prompt: You are analyzing relationships between people. In this
context: 1. Relationships are either 'good' or 'bad'. 2. Relationships have
transitive properties: - If A has a good relationship with B, and B has a
good relationship with C, then A has a good relationship with C. - If A has
a bad relationship with B, and A has a good relationship with C, then B and C
must have a bad relationship. 3. A 'group' is defined as a set of people where
every person has a good relationship with every other person in the set. 4.
People are in the same group if and only if they have good relationships with
each other (directly or through transitivity). 5. Groups are completely
separate - if someone from one group has a bad relationship with someone
from another group, then everyone from the first group has a bad relationship
with everyone from the second group. Base your analysis strictly on the
information provided and these rules.
User Prompt: There are 8 people in total, labeled from A to H. Based on
the relationship information below, count the total number of pairs of people
who have good relationships and the total number of pairs who have bad
relationships. Answer in the specified format. C and H have a bad
relationship A and G have a good relationship H and E have a good
relationship A and D have a good relationship A and F have a good
relationship A and C have a good relationship A and B have a good
relationship E and G have a bad relationship Question: How many pairs of
people have good/bad relationships? Provide your answer in the format:
Final Answer: X pairs have good relationships, Y pairs have bad relationships
Figure 47: Case study: Social Graph Analysis

73

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Social Graph Analysis
To analyze the relationships among the 8 people (A to H) based on the provided
information, we will first establish the good and bad relationships according to the rules
given......
Total good relationships = 6 pairs.
### Step 4: Identify Bad Relationships
We already know two pairs with bad relationships:
1. C and H
2. E and G
Now, using the rules:
- Since A and H cannot be good, we can infer A and H must have a bad relationship.
- If B is good with A, it cannot be bad with H, confirming the bad relationship between H
and A.
### Total Bad Relationships
We now have:
1. C and H
2. E and G
3. A and H
Total bad relationships = 3 pairs.
### Final Count:
- Good relationships: 6 pairs
- Bad relationships: 3 pairs
### Final Answer:
Final Answer: 6 pairs have good relationships, 3 pairs have bad relationships.

Response by GPT-4o-mini
Figure 48: Case study: Social Graph Analysis GPT-4o-mini

74

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Social Graph Analysis
First, note there are 8 people total (A through H), which gives 28 total distinct pairs. By
applying the given rules and the specific relationships:
• A, B, C, D, F, G all end up in one group (they all interconnect with “good” via
transitivity).
• E and H form a second group (they have a “good” relationship with each other but a
“bad” relationship with everyone in the first group).
Hence:
• Within the first group (6 people: A, B, C, D, F, G), there are C(6,2) = 15 good pairs.
• Within the second group (2 people: E, H), there is C(2,2) = 1 good pair.
• All cross‑ group pairs (6×2 = 12 of them) must be bad.
So in total:
• Good pairs = 15 + 1 = 16
• Bad pairs = 12
Final Answer: 16 pairs have good relationships, 12 pairs have bad relationships.

Response by o1
Figure 49: Case study: Social Graph Analysis o1

75

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Review Decision Prediction
Source: ICLR 2022 Multi-scale Feature Learning Dynamics: Insights for
Double Descent (Reject)
The paper titled \"Multi-scale Feature Learning Dynamics: Insights for
Double Descent\" presents a theoretical analysis of epoch-wise double
descent in neural networks using a linear teacher-student model. The authors
derive closed-form expressions for the generalization error and validate their
findings with numerical experiments. The paper addresses an important
phenomenon in deep learning, providing insights into the dynamics of feature
learning and generalization error......Some reviewers questioned the novelty
of the contributions, suggesting that similar insights might have been explored
in prior works. The authors have attempted to clarify these points, but the
novelty remains a concern for some reviewers. 2. Technical Issues: Reviewer
3 pointed out numerous typos and errors in the initial submission, which
could have affected the clarity and perceived correctness of the paper.
Although the authors have addressed these issues, it raises concerns about the
initial quality of the submission. 3. Connections to Prior Work: While the
authors have made efforts to connect their work to existing literature, some
reviewers felt that these connections could be stronger. The authors have
added discussions to address this, but it remains a point of contention. 4.
Empirical Significance: The empirical contributions were considered
marginally significant by some reviewers, as the primary focus of the paper is
theoretical. Conclusion: The paper addresses an important and timely
topic in deep learning, providing valuable theoretical insights into the
phenomenon of epoch-wise double descent. The authors have made
significant efforts to address the reviewers' concerns, improving the clarity and
depth of their analysis. While there are some concerns about novelty and
initial presentation, the overall contribution of the paper is substantial,
particularly in its theoretical advancements and empirical validation. Final
Decision: Accept

Response by GPT-4o
Figure 50: Case study: ICLR 2022 GPT-4o

76

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Review Decision Prediction
Source: ICLR 2022 Multi-scale Feature Learning Dynamics: Insights for
Double Descent (Reject)
......Final Decision: Accept Reasoning: The paper provides a theoretical
analysis of epoch-wise double descent, a phenomenon observed in deep
learning, using a linear teacher-student model. The work derives closed-form
expressions for generalization error dynamics, attributing double descent to
multi-scale feature learning. While reviewers raised concerns about technical
novelty, connections to prior work, and clarity, the authors addressed these
effectively in their response: 1. Technical Novelty: The adaptation of replica
theory to study finite-time dynamics (rather than asymptotic behavior) and the
explicit link between early-stopping and ridge regularization are novel
contributions. The analytical framework enables insights into transient
phenomena like epoch-wise double descent, advancing beyond prior
asymptotic analyses. 2. Empirical Validation: The authors strengthened
connections to deep networks by analyzing NTK singular values in ResNet-18
on CIFAR-10, showing how feature learning scales correlate with error
dynamics. This bridges theory and practice. 3. Clarity and Corrections:
Typos and notation inconsistencies were resolved, derivations were expanded
in the appendix, and discussions were added to clarify differences between
epoch-wise and model-wise double descent, as well as connections to related
works (e.g., Heckel & Yilmaz, Stephenson & Lee). 4. Reviewer Concerns
Mitigated: The authors provided additional experiments (e.g., triple descent),
addressed implicit regularization links, and justified assumptions about SGD
noise.
While the linear model simplification limits direct applicability to
nonlinear networks, the paper’s analytical rigor and empirical alignment with
deep networks justify its relevance. The work offers a foundational
understanding of epoch-wise double descent, meeting the standards of a toptier conference

Response by DeepSeek-R1
Figure 51: Case study: ICLR 2022 DeepSeek-R1

77

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Review Decision Prediction
Source: ICLR 2020 Domain Adaptive Multibranch Networks (Accept)
The paper titled \"Domain Adaptive Multibranch Networks\" presents a
novel approach to unsupervised domain adaptation by proposing a framework
that allows different domains to undergo different sequences of operations,
thereby enabling a more flexible and potentially more effective feature
representation for recognition tasks. The reviewers generally recognize the
novelty and potential of the proposed method, but they also raise significant
concerns regarding the experimental validation and comparison with state-ofthe-art methods. A major concern across all reviewers is the lack of
comprehensive experimental validation......The authors have acknowledged
this gap and have indicated that they will include additional experiments in
the revised version. However, the initial submission lacked sufficient
experimental evidence to convincingly support the claims made about the
method's effectiveness. 3. Ablation Studies and Hyperparameter Sensitivity:
- Reviewers pointed out the absence of ablation studies and sensitivity
analyses, which are essential for understanding the impact of various design
choices in the proposed framework. The authors have committed to including
these analyses in the revised version, which is a positive step, but the initial
lack of such studies raises concerns about the robustness of the findings. 4.
Clarity and Presentation: - The paper is generally well-written and easy to
follow, which is a positive aspect. However, some terminological issues and
the unusual referencing style were noted, and the authors have agreed to
address these in the revised manuscript. 5. Response to Reviewer Comments:
- The authors have provided thoughtful responses to the reviewers' comments
and have indicated their willingness to improve the manuscript based on the
feedback received. This is a good sign of their commitment to enhancing the
quality of their work. ### Conclusion: While the proposed method shows
promise and the authors are willing to make necessary improvements, the
initial submission lacks sufficient experimental validation and comparison
with state-of-the-art methods, which are critical for acceptance at a top-tier
conference. The authors' commitment to addressing these issues in a revised
version is commendable, but the current state of the paper does not meet the
high standards expected for publication. Final Decision: Reject

Response by GPT-4o-mini
Figure 52: Case study: ICLR 2020 GPT-4o-mini

78

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Review Decision Prediction
Source: ICLR 2020 Domain Adaptive Multibranch Networks (Accept)
The paper titled \"Domain Adaptive Multibranch Networks\" presents a
novel approach to unsupervised domain adaptation by introducing a deep
learning framework that allows different domains to undergo different
sequences of operations. This approach contrasts with existing methods that
process all domains with the same series of operations. The paper claims that
this flexibility leads to higher accuracy and can handle multiple domains
simultaneously. Strengths:......Weaknesses: 1. Experimental Validation:
The primary concern across the reviews is the lack of comprehensive
experimental validation. The paper does not compare its results with state-ofthe-art methods like CDAN, which is crucial for establishing the effectiveness
of the proposed method. The authors have acknowledged this and provided
additional experiments in their response, but the initial submission lacked this
critical comparison. 2. Ablation Studies and Sensitivity Analysis: The paper
lacks detailed ablation studies and hyperparameter sensitivity analyses, which
are essential to understand the robustness and limitations of the proposed
method. The authors have addressed some of these concerns in their response,
but the initial submission was incomplete in this regard. 3. Parameter
Sharing Explanation: There is some confusion regarding parameter sharing,
as highlighted by Reviewer 2. The authors have attempted to clarify this in
their response, but the initial presentation was not entirely clear. 4. Baseline
Comparisons: The baseline results presented in the paper are not comparable
to those reported in other UDA papers, which raises concerns about the
experimental setup and the validity of the results. Author Response: The
authors have provided a detailed response to the reviewers' concerns,
including additional experiments and clarifications. They have acknowledged
the need for comparisons with state-of-the-art methods and have conducted
further experiments to address this. They have also provided more insights
into the behavior of their method under different settings. Conclusion:
While the paper presents a novel and interesting approach to domain
adaptation, the initial submission lacked critical experimental validation and
comparisons with state-of-the-art methods. The authors have addressed these
issues in their response, but the extent to which these additions improve the
paper is not entirely clear from the provided information. Given the
importance of experimental validation in a top-tier conference, the initial
shortcomings are significant. Final Decision: Reject

Response by GPT-4o
Figure 53: Case study: ICLR 2020 GPT-4o

79

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

K. Prompt Template
Hidden Role Deduction Evaluation Prompt Template
You are an expert in social reasoning participating in a social deduction game.
Game Setup:
• Players: 6 total (including yourself)
• Roles: 3 Investigator(s), 1 Criminal(s), 1 Rumormonger(s), 1 Lunatic(s)
Game Mechanics:
• Rounds: 3
• Actions per Round: Each player makes one statement about another player (claiming if
they are the criminal or not).
• Role Behaviors:
– Investigators: Always provide truthful information about who is a Criminal.
– Criminals: May make truthful or false statements to confuse others.
– Rumormongers: Believe they are Investigators but may provide incorrect statements.
– Lunatics: Believe they are Criminals and may make truthful or false statements.
• Key Rule: Only Investigators provide consistently truthful information.
Your Role: You are Player #1, and you have been told that you are the Criminal.
Your Task: After each round, analyze all statements made so far. Deduce the most likely criminal
and the role of each player based on the available information.
Output Format: After each round, provide your judgment exactly as follows:
Final Judgment:
• Final Criminal Is Player [Criminal Player Number].
• My Role Is [Player 1’s Role or "Unknown"].
Think step-by-step internally, but only output the Final Judgment in the specified format. Update
your judgment each round as more information becomes available. If you cannot determine
your own role with confidence (despite being told), state "Unknown".

80

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Find the Spy — Data Generation Prompt
You are playing a word description game with 4 players including yourself. You are Player
player_id.
Game Rules:
1. Setup: 3 players receive the same "normal" word; 1 player receives a different but related
"spy" word.
2. Gameplay: Each player describes their word without saying the actual word.
3. Objective (Normal Player): Identify the spy.
4. Objective (Spy): Blend in and avoid detection.
Your Word: “word”
Your Task: Provide descriptions of your word over several rounds.
Output Format: Format your response according to the round structure provided below:
rounds_format
Key Instructions:
• Do not use the actual word in your descriptions.
• Describe your word from a different perspective in each round.
• Be clear enough for teammates (if normal) but not too obvious (especially if spy).
• Each description must be only one sentence long.

Find the Spy -– Evaluation Prompt
You are a skilled player in a word description game. Your task is to identify the ’spy’.
Game Rules:
1. Players: 4 total.
2. Setup: 3 players received the same "normal" word; 1 player received a different but related
"spy" word.
3. Gameplay: Each player describes their word without saying it directly.
4. Objective: Determine who the spy is based on their descriptions.
Your Information: You are Player #1, and your word is: “player1_word”. You will be shown
the descriptions from all players.
Your Task: Analyze the provided descriptions carefully. Look for subtle differences, inconsistencies, or descriptions that seem slightly out of place, which might reveal the player with the
different word (the spy). Identify which player you believe is the spy.
Output Format: State the player number you believe is the spy. Provide your answer exactly as
follows: Final Answer: Player X

81

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Rating Estimation from Text – Data Generation Prompt
You are writing a product review for an e-commerce platform. You are Reviewer reviewer_id.
Product Information:
• Product: brand product
• Category: category
• Price: $price
• Description: description
Your Reviewer Persona: You are persona.
Context (Known Only to You): The true quality rating of this product is true_rating out of 5
stars. You are assigned the role of a reviewer_type.
Your Task: Write a product review reflecting your assigned persona and a specific rating.
Instructions:
1. Write a realistic product review with a sentiment sentiment.
2. The review’s tone and content should imply a rating of rating/5 stars.
3. Do not explicitly mention any star rating or numerical score (e.g., avoid saying "4
stars" or "rated it 4/5").
4. Base the review on your supposed experience with the product, incorporating specific
details.
5. Keep the review between 1–2 sentences long.
Output Format: Write only the review text. Do not include a title, rating, persona description,
or any other metadata.

Rating Estimation from Text – Evaluation Prompt
You are an AI assistant tasked with estimating the true quality of a product based on customer
reviews.
Your Task: Analyze multiple reviews for a product and determine the most likely TRUE quality
of the product on a 1–5 star scale.
Important Context:
• Most reviewers are genuine customers providing honest feedback.
• Some reviewers might be biased (e.g., overly positive "professional" reviewers or overly
negative "malicious" reviewers).
• Your goal is to estimate the rating a typical, unbiased consumer would give.
Product Reviews:
Reviewer #1: "review_1"
Reviewer #2: "review_2"
Reviewer #3: "review_3"
Analysis and Output: Analyze these reviews carefully, considering potential biases. Determine
the TRUE quality of this product on a scale of 1–5 stars. The rating should be rounded to the
nearest whole number (e.g., 4.6 rounds to 5, 3.1 rounds to 3).
First, explain your reasoning step-by-step. Then, provide your final rating in exactly this format:

Final Rating:

X

82

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Social Graph Analysis – Cluster Identification Prompt
You are analyzing social relationships based on defined rules.
Relationship Rules:
1. Relationship Types: ’good’ or ’bad’.
2. Transitive Properties:
• Good-Good Transitivity: If A–good–B and B–good–C, then A–good–C.
• Bad Relationship Inference: If A–bad–B and A–good–C, then B–bad–C.
3. Group Definition: A ’group’ is a set where every person has a ’good’ relationship with
every other person in that set (directly or via transitivity).
4. Group Separation: People are in the same group if and only if they have good relationships.
Groups are distinct; if anyone from Group 1 has a bad relationship with anyone from
Group 2, then everyone in Group 1 has a bad relationship with everyone in Group 2.
Context: There are 14 people total, labeled A to N. You will be given a list of known relationships.
Your Task: Based strictly on the provided relationship list and the rules above, determine the
total number of distinct groups of people.
[Relationship list will be provided here]
Question: How many distinct groups of people are there?
Output Format: Provide your answer exactly as follows: Final Answer: <number>

Social Graph Analysis – Relationship Counting Prompt
You are analyzing social relationships based on defined rules.
Relationship Rules:
1. Relationship Types: ’good’ or ’bad’.
2. Transitive Properties:
• Good-Good Transitivity: If A–good–B and B–good–C, then A–good–C.
• Bad Relationship Inference: If A–bad–B and A–good–C, then B–bad–C.
3. Group Definition: A ’group’ is a set where every person has a ’good’ relationship with
every other person in that set (directly or via transitivity).
4. Group Separation: People are in the same group if and only if they have good relationships.
Groups are distinct; if anyone from Group 1 has a bad relationship with anyone from
Group 2, then everyone in Group 1 has a bad relationship with everyone in Group 2.
Context: There are 14 people total, labeled A to N. You will be given a list of known relationships.
Your Task: Based strictly on the provided relationship list and the rules above (including
applying transitivity), count the total number of pairs of people who have ’good’ relationships
and the total number of pairs who have ’bad’ relationships across all 14 people.
[Relationship list will be provided here]
Question: How many pairs have good relationships, and how many pairs have bad relationships?
Output Format: Provide your answer exactly as follows: Final Answer: X pairs have

good relationships, Y pairs have bad relationships

83

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Social Graph Analysis – Group Membership Prompt
You are analyzing social relationships based on defined rules.
Relationship Rules:
1. Relationship Types: ’good’ or ’bad’.
2. Transitive Properties:
• Good-Good Transitivity: If A–good–B and B–good–C, then A–good–C.
• Bad Relationship Inference: If A–bad–B and A–good–C, then B–bad–C.
3. Group Definition: A ’group’ is a set where every person has a ’good’ relationship with
every other person in that set (directly or via transitivity).
4. Group Separation: People are in the same group if and only if they have good relationships.
Groups are distinct; if anyone from Group 1 has a bad relationship with anyone from
Group 2, then everyone in Group 1 has a bad relationship with everyone in Group 2.
Context: There are 14 people total, labeled A to N. You will be given a list of known relationships.
Your Task: Based strictly on the provided relationship list and the rules above (including applying
transitivity), identify all people who have a ’good’ relationship with the person specified in the
question.
[Relationship list will be provided here]
Question: Who has a good relationship with H?
Output Format: List the names in alphabetical order, separated by commas. If no one has a
good relationship with the specified person (other than themselves, if applicable based on rules
interpretation - assume self-relationships are not listed unless explicitly stated), answer ’No
one’. Provide your answer exactly as follows: Final Answer: <list of people or ’No

one’>

Social Graph Analysis – Reasoning Prompt
You are analyzing social relationships based on defined rules.
Relationship Rules:
1. Relationship Types: ’good’ or ’bad’.
2. Transitive Properties:
• Good-Good Transitivity: If A–good–B and B–good–C, then A–good–C.
• Bad Relationship Inference: If A–bad–B and A–good–C, then B–bad–C.
3. Group Definition: A ’group’ is a set where every person has a ’good’ relationship with
every other person in that set (directly or via transitivity).
4. Group Separation: People are in the same group if and only if they have good relationships.
Groups are distinct; if anyone from Group 1 has a bad relationship with anyone from
Group 2, then everyone in Group 1 has a bad relationship with everyone in Group 2.
Context: There are 14 people total, labeled A to N. You will be given a list of known relationships.
Your Task: Based strictly on the provided relationship list and the rules above (including
applying transitivity), determine whether the specific relationship mentioned in the question is
’good’ or ’bad’, and answer ’Yes’ if it’s good, ’No’ if it’s bad.
[Relationship list will be provided here]
Question: Do N and L have a good relationship?
Output Format: Provide your answer exactly as follows: Final Answer: <Yes/No>

84

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

Review Decision Prediction Evaluation Prompt
You are an expert reviewer evaluating a research paper for a prestigious academic conference.
Your Task: Analyze the provided paper information, reviewer comments, and author responses
to determine whether the paper should be accepted or rejected for publication at a top-tier
conference.
Important Context:
• Judge the paper based on the standards of a highly selective, top-tier conference.
• Consider the strengths, weaknesses, novelty, significance, and clarity of the work.
• Evaluate the validity of reviewer concerns and the effectiveness of the author’s rebuttal.
Provided Information:
Paper Information: [Title, Abstract, Keywords, etc., will be provided here]
Reviewer Comments: [Comments from multiple reviewers will be provided here]
Author Response: [Author’s rebuttal to reviewer comments will be provided here]
Analysis and Output: Based on all the information provided, perform a careful analysis. First,
provide your detailed reasoning, discussing the key factors influencing your decision (e.g.,
strengths, weaknesses, contribution, response to reviews). Then, conclude with your final
decision in exactly this format:

Final Decision:

<Accept/Reject>

User Profile Inference Comment Generation Prompt
You are simulating a user commenting online.
Context: You are commenting on this content_type: "content_subject". Your simulated user
persona is: age_group, gender.
Your Task: Write a realistic, authentic comment about the content_subject that reflects your
assigned persona.
Instructions:
1. The comment should be 2–4 sentences long.
2. It should sound like a genuine user from the specified demographic, not a professional
writer or marketer.
3. Consider incorporating common vocabulary, tone, or writing patterns associated with the
age_group.
Output Format: Write only the comment text itself. Do not include any explanations, labels, or
quotation marks around the comment.

85

SocialMaze: A Benchmark for Evaluating Social Reasoning in Large Language Models

User Profile Inference Demographic Inference Prompt
You are an AI assistant analyzing writing style to infer user demographics.
Your Task: Analyze multiple comments written by the same person and determine their likely
age group and gender based on writing style, vocabulary, topics of interest, and expressed
perspectives.
User Comments:
"comment_1"
"comment_2"
"comment_3"
Analysis and Output: Analyze these comments carefully, looking for patterns indicative of age
and gender. Focus on identifying the single most likely demographic profile based *only* on the
provided text.
First, explain your reasoning, citing specific examples from the text. Then, provide your final
demographic classification in exactly this format:

Age Group:

<18-34 | 35-54 | 55+> Gender:

<Male | Female | Non-binary>

86

