Modeling Personalization in Continuous Space for Response Generation
via Augmented Wasserstein Autoencoders
Zhangming Chan1,3,∗, Juntao Li1,3,∗ , Xiaopeng Yang4 , Xiuying Chen1,3 ,
Wenpeng Hu2,3 , Dongyan Zhao1,3 and Rui Yan1,3,†
1
Center for Data Science, AAIS, Peking University
2
School of Mathematical Sciences, Peking University
3
Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University
4
David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science, Faculty of Mathematics,
University of Waterloo
{zhangming.chan,ljt,ruiyan}@pku.edu.cn
Abstract
Variational autoencoders (VAEs) and Wasserstein autoencoders (WAEs) have achieved noticeable progress in open-domain response
generation. Through introducing latent variables in continuous space, these models are
capable of capturing utterance-level semantics, e.g., topic, syntactic properties, and thus
can generate informative and diversified responses.
In this work, we improve the
WAE for response generation. In addition
to the utterance-level information, we also
model user-level information in latent continue space. Specifically, we embed user-level
and utterance-level information into two multimodal distributions, and combine these two
multimodal distributions into a mixed distribution. This mixed distribution will be used as
the prior distribution of WAE in our proposed
model, named as PersonaWAE. Experimental
results on a large-scale real-world dataset confirm the superiority of our model for generating informative and personalized responses,
where both automatic and human evaluations
outperform state-of-the-art models.

1

Introduction

Over the past decade, a myriad of conversational
systems have been proposed in the field of artificial intelligence and achieved remarkable success
in various industry scenarios, such as e-commerce
assistant (Li et al., 2017) and chit-chat machine
XiaoIce (Shum et al., 2018). Based on the domains involved in previous research, existing work
can be categorized into two groups, i.e., verticaldomain (Glas et al., 2015) and open-domain (Zhao
et al., 2017), where the former group pursues to
complete a specific target with limited domain
knowledge while the latter one involves massive
topics in conversations. In this work, we focus on
∗
†

Equal contribution. Ordering is decided by a coin flip.
Corresponding author.

the latter one and intend to generate a natural and
meaningful response for a given conversation context. Most recent works build upon the sequence
to sequence model (Bahdanau et al., 2014) and can
generate a fluent response. But they suffer from
the notorious “universal response” issue, i.e., generating safe and uninformative responses (e.g., I
don’t know) (Li et al., 2015).
To address the aforementioned shortcoming,
advanced conversational systems propose to capture and incorporate extra information from two
different levels, i.e., utterance-level and user-level.
As for utterance-level information modeling, previous works mainly construct models upon variational autoencoders (VAE) (Kingma and Welling,
2014). By doing so, responses with diverse and
informative words can be generated by introducing a latent variable for modeling utterance-level
information such as topic, and syntactic structure (Bowman et al., 2015). It is verified in various open-domain response generation situations
that conditional variational autoencoders (CVAE)
(Serban et al., 2017; Zhao et al., 2017) are effective for addressing the “universal response” issue.
In user-level information modeling, existing models either implicitly learn user information from
training data such as learning user embedding (Li
et al., 2015) or explicitly collect user profiles as
the accurate personalization (Zhang et al., 2017;
Yang et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2018). Although
obtaining user profiles is more effective and accurate than user embeddings, it is time-consuming
and economically costly, or even impossible under
the condition of protecting user privacy.
We propose the PersonaWAE model, a novel
conversational system which simultaneously captures user-level personalization and utterancelevel information as extra hints for generating better responses. Our model is motivated by following two points: 1) existing embedding based per-

1931
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing, pages 1931–1940,
Hong Kong, China, November 3–7, 2019. c 2019 Association for Computational Linguistics

sona modeling methods cannot discover the common properties among users and train the embedding for different user independently, which cause
(equal to learning) a very high-dimensional persona embedding and thus have a low data utilization efficiency or require a large amount of training data for each user. 2) benefited by the semantic capturing ability of WAEs, plenitude persona information can be gathered into the continuous space (Li et al., 2019). To this end, we
build our model upon the state-of-the-art conversation model WAE (Gu et al., 2019) to model
utterance-level and the user-level information. In
the case, user embeddings are utilized as the condition of the prior distribution of the latent variable to formulate a WAE conditional prior. Meanwhile, to further model and fuse the utterance
and user-level information, we extend these simple prior distributions to the Gaussian Mixture
Distributions (GMDs, more details of the reasons
in Section 2.2). After obtaining two GMDs, we
combine them into a mixed distribution and regard this mixed distribution as the prior distribution of PersonaWAE. To evaluate the effectiveness
of our proposed personalized conversational system, we collect a large dataset with user identifications. Experimental results on both automatic
and human evaluation demonstrate that our proposed model can outperform several strong methods, and generate personalized responses for different users.
In a nutshell, our contributions can be summarized as follows:
• We proposed a novel personalized Wasserstein autoencoder (PersonaWAE) for open-domain
response generation, which incorporates both
utterance-level and user-level information;
• We proposed to mix two different types of
Gaussian mixture distribution as the prior distribution of our model for scaling up the capability
of the latent variable;
• Experiments performed on a large dataset
demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed
model and achieves the new state-of-the-art results.

2

Preliminaries

2.1

VAE and WAE

VAE, supervises the generation process under an
extra condition c. To train a CVAE model, the
log-likelihood objective log pθ (x|c) is maximized
through pushing up its variational lower bound:
O(θ, φ, x, c) = − KL(qφ (z|x, c)||pθ (z|c))
+ Eqφ (z|x,c) [log pθ (x|z, c)]

where qθ (z|x, c) and pθ (z|c) represent the approximated conditional posterior and the conditional prior respectively, log pθ (x|z, c) represents
the probability of reconstructing x conditioned on
both z and c. Herein KL(·) represents the KLdivergence term, which serves as the regularization for encouraging the approximated posterior
qφ (z) to approach the prior pθ (z), i.e. a standard Gaussian distribution. E[·] is the term of reconstruction loss, reflecting how well the decoder
performs. The KL-divergence can be replaced by
Wasserstein distance which is implemented by Arjovsky et al. (2017) and is proved to be superior to
KL-divergence by many experiments. The conditional VAE based on Wasserstein distance is called
conditional WAE.
2.2

Gaussian Mixture Model

In VAE/WAE frameworks, a variable in latent
space is introduced for modeling information in
datasets. As demonstrated in Figure 1, each gray
point represents a data sample while colorized
points refer to noise data. If the latent variable
obeys a Gaussian distribution, noise samples (colorized points) will result in inferior responses. Alternatively, a Gaussian mixture distribution can
model the datasets more accurately. Conventional
VAE and WAE models usually set the prior distribution of the latent variable to a multivariate Gaussian distribution, formulated as
z ∼ N {µ, σ 2 I}

(2)

where µ and σ 2 represent the mean and variance
of N . In our model, we utilize a Gaussian mixture
distribution as the prior distribution of the latent
variable z, written by
z ∼ N {πk , µk , σk2 I}K
k=1

Conditional VAE (CVAE) is a popular framework
for dialogue generation (Zhao et al., 2017; Shen
et al., 2017, 2018). CVAE, as an extension of

(1)

(3)

where µk and σk2 is the parameter for the k-th gaussian distribution in this multimodal distribution.
πk is the weight.

1932

Gaussian

Gaussian
Mixture

Noise

Data

Figure 1: Distributions on latent space. The pink circle represents a Gaussian distribution while three small
blue circles refer to a Gaussian mixture distribution,
where gray points represent positive samples, and colorized points represent noise data.

{mi }N
i=1 as the user personalizations to facilitate
personalized response generation. We denote the
trained user embeddings as U = {u1 , u2 , . . . , ui }
where ui represents the vector representations of
i-th user (User i).
Based on the user embeddings as U, we utilize learned user personalizations in the latent
space. Specifically, the conditional prior distribution of WAE part is a Gaussian mixture distribution (GMD) conditioned on the learned user embeddings, namely personalization GMD. We formulate the conditional prior as:
p(zu |ui ) =

K
X

vk N (zu ; µk , σk2 I)

(4)

k=1

2.3

Problem Formulation

We follow the conventional personalized conversation generation research (Li et al., 2016) and formulate the response generation task with the following necessary notations. A dataset with user
dialogue history content D = {(ci , ri , mi )}N
i=1 is
firstly given, where ci , ri , mi represent dialogue
context, response candidate, and user specific dialogue utterance respectively. Note that we treat
the user dialogue utterance for extracting personalization information in multi-turn response generation. Herein, the context is formulated by:
ci = (s1 , s2 , · · · , sj , · · · , sni ) where sj represents
an utterance in the j-th turn of dialogue context
and there are ni utterances in the dialogue context. mi denotes the user specific dialogue utterance. ri = {ri,1 , ri,2 , · · · , ri,nr }, where nr is the
length of a target response ri . Then, our task is
defined as learning a mapping function f (·) from
the given dataset that can yield a personalized response according to the given dialogue context and
the user dialogue history.

3

Proposed Model

As in Figure 2, our proposed personalized Wasserstein autoencoder (PersonaWAE) consists of user
personalization modeling and WAE, where details
are elaborated as follows.
3.1

User Personalization Modeling

Personalization Gaussian Mixture Distribution.
To model the user-level information in the continue space, we build the Personalization Gaussian
Mixture Distribution (Personalization GMD).
We train vector representations of users (Li
et al., 2016) from user dialog history M =

where {πk , µk , σk2 I}K
k=1 represent the GMD (the
distribution will deprecate to a Gaussian distribution when K=1) and the parameters of k-th Gaussian distribution are {µk , σk2 }. vk is a component
indicator with class probabilities π1 , π2 , . . . , πK ,
where πk is the mixture coefficient of the k-th
component of the GMD. We follow (Gu et al.,
2019) and compute these parameters as:


ak
 µk  = Wk (ui ) + bk
log σk2
(5)
a
k
e
πk = PK
ak
i=1 e
To obtain vk , we use the Gumbel-Softmax
reparametrization to replace the exact sampling:
gi = − log(− log(bi ))
e(ak +gk )/τ
vk = PK
(ai +gi )/τ
i=1 e

(6)

where bi is a sample from U (0, 1), and τ is the
softmax temperature to control the sampling process.
Fusion of Personalization in Decoder. We also
incorporate the user embeddings into the decoder.
Concretely, user personalization is used as the input of each updating step to obtain user-specific information for generating personalized responses.
Meanwhile, ui is updated by back-propagating
loss signal during training. As user personalizations are high-level representations, we further introduce a gating strategy to dynamically balance
the user personalization and the current conversation information.

1933

Sentence Encoder
···

···

···

Decoder

Recognition

···

Context
Prior

···

···

···

···

D

···

···

···

Multinomial

Context Encoder

···

Sentence Encoder

···

···

Wasserstein
distance

Multinomial

Personalization
Prior

···

···
···

···
······

······

Figure 2: The detailed architecture of our proposed PersonaWAE model.

3.2

Personalized Wasserstein Autoencoder

Our proposed PersonaWAE consists of encoder,
prior and recognition networks, and decoder.
Encoder. The encoder encodes a given context by a bidirectional RNN with GRU cells following (Chen et al., 2018). Through the encoder,
the context ci = (u1 , u2 , · · · , uj , · · · , uni ) is represented as concatenated forward and backward1
vectors Vc = (v1 , v2 , · · · , vj , · · · , vni ), where
→
−
vi = [ −
v i, ←
v i ]. Similarly, the target response ri
is represented by the concatenation of states from
another bi-directional RNN with GRU cells, denoted as vr,i . The vectors sequence Vc is further
processed by an RNNs and yields a vector representation vc,i . Note that vc,i refers to c in Equation
1 while vr,i represents x.
Recognition and Prior Networks. We use
a recognition network to learn the posterior
qθ (z|x, c), we hypothesize that the approximated
variational posterior follows an isotropic multivariate Gaussian distribution N (µ, σ 2 I), where I
represents the diagonal covariance. Thus modeling qθ (z|x, c) is converted to learn µ and log σ 2 :



 
µ
x
= Wo (
)+b
log σ 2
c

(7)

which is presented as the recognition network in
Figure 2. Wo and b are trainable parameters.
To approach the prior distribution, we superpose two conditional GMD, where the first
1

→ and ← refer to forward and backward, respectively.

one is personalization GMD as mentioned before
while another conditional GMD that called context GMD is performed on context c. Resemble
to the personalization GMD, the parameters of the
context GMD pφ (zc |c) are defined as a0k , µ0k and
log σk02 , which is learned by:

a0k
 µ0k  = Wrk (c) + b0k
0
log σk2


(8)

Fusion of two GMDs. In fusing personalization and context GMD, we use the weighted addition strategy to superpose these two distributions,
where the resulted new distribution is the prior distribution of PersonaWAE (which is also a GMD).
 
 
wc
c
= sof tmax(Wf (
))
wu
ui
(9)
z p = wc · z c + wu · z u
where Wf is a trainable parameter.
Decoder. The decoder is a one-layer GRU network to output the sentence in the generation,
which is shown in the right hand of Figure 2. Taking the generation of response ri as an example,
the initial state of the decoder is calculated as:
 
z
si,0 = Wd ( p ) + bd
(10)
c
where Wd is a trainable matrix for dimension
transformation. To facilitate the combination of
user personalization ui and decoder hidden states,

1934

we incorporate a gate module (Tu et al., 2018) in
our model:
g = f (Ust−1 + Vdt + Wui )


dt
ot = GRU(st−1 ,
)
g · ui

+ W (qφ (z|x, c)||pθ (z|c, ui ))
(12)

4.1

Dataset

To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed personalized WAE model (PersonaWAE), we collect
a dataset from an open online chatting forum, i.e.,
Weibo 2 , which contains massive multi-turn conversation sessions and user identification information. Overall, there are 31,128,520 utterances in
the raw dataset with corresponded user identifications. To construct the personalized conversation
systems, we retrieve users with more than 14 utterances from the raw Weibo corpus. We also filtrate
conversation sessions with less than 2 turns for
training multi-turn conversation systems. We use
a sliding window with a size of 3 to construct each
dialogue session and there are 3 utterances in each
dialogue session. By doing so, there are 336,342
conversation sessions in the cleaned corpus. We
remove emojis in utterances and utilize NLTK for
tokenization. Then, we randomly split the Weibo
corpus into 335,342/5,000/5,000 sessions as training/validation/testing sets. For each session, the
last utterance is the target response for generation
while other utterances are treated as context.
4.2

Baselines

In our experiments, we compare our proposed
method with the following highly related and
strong baselines.
2

Does the response contains informative words ?

Personalization

Does the response resembles with any user history?

Table 1: Criteria of human evaluation.

L(θ, φ; c, x, ui ) = − Eqφ (z|x,c,ui ) log p(x|z, c, ui )

Experiments

Is the response grammatically formed and smooth ?

Informativeness

(11)

where f is the sigmoid funtion and ot refers to the
decoder output in time step t. After processing
ot with the softmax operation, the response ri is
generated.
Training.
To train our proposed model,
we launch the following objective to simultaneously minimize the Wasserstein distance between
pθ (z|c, ui ) and qφ (z|x, c), and maximize the reconstructing probability of x:

4

Readability

Seq2Seq, the vanilla schema of the sequence to
sequence model with attention mechanism (Bahdanau et al., 2014), which is widely used in various generation tasks.
Persona, a typical and recent neural personalized conversation system, which incorporates
user-level representations in the generation process (Li et al., 2016).
Adaptation, the domain adaptation solution
for building personalized conversation systems
(Zhang et al., 2017). We adapt the model in our
scenario and we use the tf-idf to obtain the personal words as the user information.
CVAE, which is the conventional CVAE model
and trained by KL-divergence. We change our
model to use KL-divergence as the training loss.
RL-Persona, the personalized conversational
system (Yang et al., 2018), which takes the advantages of deep reinforcement learning. We apply
the method into our scenario as same as Adaptation.
DiaWAE-GMD, where the former is the stateof-the-art model for open-domain conversation
generation (Gu et al., 2019). DiaWAE-GMD employs the Gaussian mixture prior to WAE.
4.3

Settings

The dimension of word embeddings is set to 200,
which is initialized with pre-trained word2vec
vectors 3 . The vocabulary is comprised of the most
frequent 31,000 words. The sentence encoder and
the context encoder in our PersonaWAE model are
two bi-directional RNN with the GRU cells, respectively. The decoder consists of a one-layer
RNN with GRUs. The hidden state sizes of both
GRU encoder and decoder are set to 256. Each
user is allocated a user-level vector representation
with dimension size 512. We set the mini-batch
size to 100. The SGD optimizer is used to train
the autoencoder module with the initial learning
rate 1.0, and the learning rate decay strategy is
employed. We use RMSprop optimizer (Hinton
et al., 2012) to update the parameters of the generator and the discriminator, where the initial learn3

http://www.weibo.com/

1935

https://github.com/tmikolov/word2vec

Models

Embedding Metrics

BLEU

Human Evaluation

Extrema

Greedy

Average

Recall

Precision

F1

Read.

Info.

P-score

Seq2Seq
Persona
Adaptation
CVAE
RL-Persona
DiaWAE-GMD

0.1640
0.1631
0.1722
0.2643
0.1694
0.4387

0.4098
0.3982
0.4038
0.2911
0.4536
0.4752

0.4911
0.4871
0.5113
0.5759
0.4906
0.7573

0.1646
0.1646
0.1689
0.1931
0.1723
0.3409

0.1646
0.1646
0.1689
0.1636
0.1723
0.1710

0.1646
0.1646
0.1689
0.1771
0.1723
0.2277

2.30
2.31
2.29
2.02
2.21
2.31

2.16
2.15
1.93
2.33
2.22
2.35

0.49
0.50
0.47
0.45
0.63
0.50

PersonaWAE

0.4542

0.5914

0.7585

0.3365

0.1806

0.2350

2.33

2.37

0.66

2.73

2.66

0.86

ground-truth

Table 2: The results of both automatic evaluations and human evaluation. Read., Info., P-score refer to readability,
informativeness, personalization scores. The kappa value between human annotators is 0.41, which indicates a
moderate inter-rater.

# Distributions in GMD
1
2
3
4
5

Embedding Metrics
Extrema

Greedy

Average

0.4114
0.4228
0.4542
0.4013
0.4382

0.3110
0.4494
0.5914
0.5764
0.5680

0.7026
0.7135
0.7585
0.7256
0.7490

BLEU-F1

Models

0.1547
0.1543
0.2350
0.2150
0.2480

Embedding Metrics

BLEU-F1

Extrema

Greedy

Average

PersonaWAE

0.4542

0.5914

0.7585

0.2350

w/o prior
w/o fusion

0.4360
0.4293

0.4848
0.4813

0.7479
0.7588

0.2256
0.2244

Table 3: The results of different settings of k in personalization GMD, where k denotes number of distributions. When k = 1, it is a Gaussian distribution.

Table 4: The results of Ablation Experiments. w/o denotes without. Fusion represents fusion of personalization in decoder.

ing rates are set to 5e-5 and 1e-5, respectively. The
gradient penalty is used for training discriminator
(Gulrajani et al., 2017). The value of τ in Gumbel
softmax is set to 0.1.

cosine similarity between the largest extreme values among the word embeddings in the two utterances (Forgues et al., 2014). We report the maximum BOW embedding scores of the 10 sampled
responses for each testing context.
Overlap-based Metric. We utilize BLEU
score (Papineni et al., 2002) to measure n-grams
overlaps between ground-truth and generated response. Specifically, we follow the conventional
setting in previous work (Gu et al., 2019) to compute BLEU scores using smoothing techniques
(smoothing 7) 4 . For each testing context, we sample 10 responses from the models and compute
their BLEU scores, i.e., n-gram precision (BLEUPrecision), n-gram recall (BLEU-Recall), and ngram F1 (BLEU-F1).
Human Evaluation. We also employ human
evaluation to assess the responses generated by our
model and the baselines. Three well-educated annotators are hired to evaluate the quality of generated responses, where the evaluation is conducted
in a double-blind fashion. Totally, 200 randomly

4.4

Evaluation Metrics

To evaluate the results of the generated responses,
we adopt the following metrics widely used in existing research.
Embedding Metrics. To capture the semantic matching degrees between generated responses
and ground-truth, we perform evaluations on embedding space. In consistent with previous study
(Gu et al., 2019), we compute the similarity between the bag-of-words (BOW) embeddings representations of generated results and reference. In
particular, we calculate three metrics:1) Greedy
(BOW-Greedy), i.e., greedily matching words in
two utterances based on the cosine similarities,
and the total scores is then averaged across all
words (Rus and Lintean, 2012); 2) Average (BOWAverage), cosine similarity between the averaged
word embeddings in the two utterances (Mitchell
and Lapata, 2008); 3) Extrema (BOW-Extrema),

4
http://www.nltk.org/_modules/nltk/
translate/bleu_score.html

1936

-这孩子，太稚嫩了，真想踹一脚
(This child is so immature that I really want to kick him.)
-wow，你大粗腿，能抬多高啊
(Wow, how high can you get with those big legs.)

-求种草水乳，性价比高点的。
(Please recommend cost-effective
make-up water and lotion to me.)
-我水乳用的老慢啦哈哈，感觉两年用一套
(I use make-up water and lotion so slow that one can be
used for 2 years.)

ground truth

你要不要试试？见证一下我能办得到！
(Try it ? Prove I can do it.)

RL-Persona

哈哈，那就好了
(Haha, it’s all right.)

User1

[UNK]，谢谢，我的小U
([UNK], thank you, my xiaoU (name))

DiaWAE-GMD

啊，完了，我就不敢说
(Game over, I can’t talk it.)

User2

哈哈，么么哒。
(Haha, thank you and I love you.)

PersonaWAE

我拿小拳拳捶你
(I’ll punch you with my fist.)

User3

小姐姐我买了(Ok, I buy it)

User4

是，哈哈(Yes, Haha)

-你什么时候回香港?
(When are you going back to HongKong?)
-签证好了就回去(when visa is ready.)
ground truth

要半个月嗬
(About half a month.)

RL-Persona

我也不知道，我也不知道
(I don’t know, I don’t know.)

DiaWAE-GMD

是因为我没在你宿舍里
(Because I’m not in your dormitory.)

PersonaWAE

哈哈，回来约，约个时间
(Ha, play togther when you are back.)

-这孩子，太稚嫩了，真想踹一脚
(This child is so immature that I really
want to kick him.)
-wow，你大粗腿，能抬多高啊
(Wow, how high can you get with those big legs.)

Table 5: Responses generated by baselines and our
model.

sampled responses generated by each model are
rated by each annotator with three different aspects, i.e., readability, informativeness, and personalization. Details of the criteria are illustrated
in Table 1. Note that it is very difficult to judge
whether a generated response resembles with the
style of the corresponding user history utterances,
and thus we rate the personalization with {0,1},
representing bad or normal. Other criteria are
scored from 1 to 3, i.e., bad, normal, and good.

5

Results and Analysis

In this section, we perform automatic evaluations
and human evaluation to measure the quality of the
generated responses quantitatively. Meanwhile,
we also conduct a qualitative study to intuitively
analyze the generated results. Table 2 presents the
results of automatic and human evaluation.
5.1

The Effect of WAE

WAE can effectively improve the quality of responses but fails to capture personalization. As
we mentioned before, we intend to improve the
response quality by using WAE. Unsurprisingly,
Seq2Seq gets the worst performance. Comparing DiaWAE-GMD with CVAE, we can observe
that DiaWAE-GMD significantly improves BLEU
scores and BOW scores upon CVAE, which is

User1

我被风吹走了(I am so thin that
i’m almost blown away by the wind.)

User2

我今天，小仙女(Today, I am a fairy !)

User3

哈哈，好(Haha, OK.)

User4

哈哈，我瘦了(Haha, I am thin !.)

-哈哈演不下去了
(Haha! I can’t play anymore.)
-早已看穿一切
(I have seen everything before.)
User1

我看了一遍，我觉得我很帅
(I watch it again, I think I am handsome.)

User2

哈哈，好哒好，等我
(Haha, get it, wait for me.)

User3

哈哈，服(Haha, come on.)

User4

哈哈，太可怕(Haha, it’s terrible.)

Table 6: Responses generated by our model for four
users. We fix the context and test the effects of different
user personalizations.

shown in Table 2. Such results indicate that
the Wasserstein distance and the adversarial training can enhance model learning and address KLvanishing issue in VAEs, as a result of which
achieves better results of generated responses,
which is also confirmed in the previous research
(Gu et al., 2019). Besides, human evaluation results in Table 4 further illustrate that DiaWAEGMD fails to model personalization of different
users insomuch as DiaWAE-GMD lacks user-level
information learning.
The number of distributions in conditional
Gaussian mixture distribution significantly alter
model performance. Table 3 presents the ablation
results of the influence of k value in personaliza-

1937

tion Gaussian mixture distribution. It is observed
that when k ≤ 3 , model performance improves
with the increasing of k, which suggests that more
distributions in GMD are helpful for modeling
user personalization. However, for k > 3, model
performance slightly drops with the increasing of
k, The potential reason is GMD with three distributions is effective enough for modeling personalization, and sophisticated GMD might suffer
scarce datasets for training.
5.2

The Influence of Personalization
Modeling

User embeddings substantially improve the quality of generated response and introduce personalizations for different users. Through conducting the comparison between PersonaWAE and
DiaWAE-GMD. We can learn that incorporating
user personalization in decoding step substantially
enhance the personalization score of human evaluations, which means user embeddings and the
combination in decoder has a positive influence on
response quality.
Incorporating personalization in the conditional GMD prior is more effective than combing
personalization in decoder. As shown in Table 2,
Persona model only achieves comparable results
with Seq2Seq in terms of BLEU scores and BOW
scores. For PersonaWAE and DiaWAE-GMD, incorporating personalizations in both decoder and
the latent space yields a performance improvement. For the BLEU-Recall, which PersonaWAE
does not outperform than DiaWAE-GMD, a possible explanation for this might be that PersonaWAE
model the personalization information and generation may be more limited.
5.3

Discussion

Overall, PersonaWAE outperforms all other baselines on both automatic and human evaluations.
Especially for personalization modeling, PersonaWAE achieves a noticeable achievement over the
strong baselines DiaWAE-GMD and RL-Persona.
These results support that our proposed PersonaWAE is effective in generating personalized response. We also observe that fusing personalized
GMD and context GMD as the conditional prior is
also useful, which is proven by the results shown
in Table 4.

5.4

Case Study

Table 5 illustrates the generated response of different models for a given context. We can observe
that our proposed model can generate responses
with readability and personalization information.
Table 6 shows a few example responses generated
by altering the user personalization information.
With different user representations, the generated
responses change, which supports that personalization representation introduced in our model
helps learn user-level information. Although it
is difficult to evaluate the personalization of generated response and there exists a gap between
generated responses and human-comprised ones,
quality improvement of responses is achieved.
Moreover, we observe that our proposed model
might generate a too long and repeated sentence in
extreme cases. The potential reason might be the
relative short dialog history for each user. Besides,
explicitly extracting knowledge and user personalization from conversation history is also promising. These results point out the direction of future
work.

6

Related Work

Constructing an automatic conversation system is
an attractive and prevalent task within the community of artificial intelligence. Previous studies mainly focus on vertical domains by applying
rule- and template-based models (Pieraccini et al.,
2009). Later on, with the explosive growth of
data, the application of open-domain conversation
model is promising. Conventional methods in vertical domains have obstacles to scale to open domain. Given this, various data-driven approaches
have been proposed for modeling open-domain
conversation, including retrieval-based methods
(Yan et al., 2016; Tao et al., 2019), statistical machine translation model (Ritter et al., 2011), and
neural networks (Serban et al., 2015; Hu et al.,
2019).
Recently, building a personalized conversation
system has been attached more attention, e.g., implicitly learning user personalizations from dialog history (Li et al., 2015), explicitly collecting
and modeling user profiles as personalizations for
generating personalized responses (Zhang et al.,
2017, 2018). To improve wording diversity, CVAE
models (Serban et al., 2017; Zhao et al., 2017;
Shen et al., 2018) are well-investigated for opendomain response generation. As the extension of

1938

CVAE, Wasserstein autoencoder (Gu et al., 2019)
is also used for open-domain response generation
to solve the issues of posterior collapse and vanishing latent variables. We build our model upon
both the advantages of WAE and personalization
modeling for personalized response generation.

7

Conclusion

Open domain response generation is a challenging task, which involves automatically comprising
a response with informative words and personalization. Although prompting progress has been
made in wording informativeness, there still exists a noticeable gap between generated response
and those created by humans, especially in personalization modeling. To fill this gap, we propose
a personalized Wasserstein autoencoder (PersonaWAE) for response generation, where the WAE
module improves informativeness by using a continuous latent variable with GMD and user vector
representations learned from dialog history is used
for introducing personalization information. Experimental results on a large dataset indicate that
our proposed model can generate better responses,
and outperforms existing models under both automatic and human evaluations.

ment representation learning towards summarization
with polishing. EMNLP.
Gabriel Forgues,
Joelle Pineau,
Jean-Marie
Larchevêque, and Réal Tremblay. 2014. Bootstrapping dialog systems with word embeddings. In
Nips, workshop, volume 2.
Nadine Glas, Ken Prepin, and Catherine Pelachaud.
2015. Engagement driven topic selection for an
information-giving agent. In SemDial.
Xiaodong Gu, Kyunghyun Cho, Jung-Woo Ha, and
Sunghun Kim. 2019. DialogWAE: Multimodal
response generation with conditional wasserstein
auto-encoder.
In International Conference on
Learning Representations.
Ishaan Gulrajani, Faruk Ahmed, Martin Arjovsky, Vincent Dumoulin, and Aaron C Courville. 2017. Improved training of wasserstein gans. In NIPS, pages
5767–5777.
Geoffrey Hinton, Nitish Srivastava, and Kevin Swersky. 2012. Rmsprop: Divide the gradient by a running average of its recent magnitude. Neural networks for machine learning, Coursera lecture 6e.
Wenpeng Hu, Zhangming Chan, Bing Liu, Dongyan
Zhao, Jinwen Ma, and Rui Yan. 2019. Gsn: A
graph-structured network for multi-party dialogues.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.13637.
Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. 2014. AutoEncoding Variational Bayes. stat, 1050:10.

Acknowledgments
We would like to thank the reviewers for their constructive comments. This work was supported by
the National Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2017YFC0804001), the National Science Foundation of China (NSFC No.
61876196 and NSFC No. 61672058). Rui Yan
was sponsored by Alibaba Innovative Research
(AIR) Grant. Rui Yan is the corresponding author.

Feng-Lin Li, Minghui Qiu, Haiqing Chen, Xiongwei Wang, Xing Gao, Jun Huang, Juwei Ren,
Zhongzhou Zhao, Weipeng Zhao, Lei Wang, et al.
2017. Alime assist: an intelligent assistant for creating an innovative e-commerce experience. In CIKM,
pages 2495–2498.

References

Jiwei Li, Michel Galley, Chris Brockett, Georgios Spithourakis, Jianfeng Gao, and Bill Dolan. 2016. A
persona-based neural conversation model. In ACL.

Martin Arjovsky, Soumith Chintala, and Léon Bottou. 2017.
Wasserstein gan.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1701.07875.
Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014. Neural machine translation by jointly
learning to align and translate. Computer Science.
Samuel R Bowman, Luke Vilnis, Oriol Vinyals, Andrew M Dai, Rafal Jozefowicz, and Samy Bengio. 2015. Generating sentences from a continuous
space. arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.06349.
Xiuying Chen, Shen Gao, Chongyang Tao, Yan Song,
Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2018. Iterative docu-

Jiwei Li, Michel Galley, Chris Brockett, Jianfeng Gao,
and Bill Dolan. 2015. A diversity-promoting objective function for neural conversation models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1510.03055.

Juntao Li, Lisong Qiu, Bo Tang, Dongmin Chen,
Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. Insufficient data
can also rock！learning to converse using smaller
data with augmentation.
Jeff Mitchell and Mirella Lapata. 2008. Vector-based
models of semantic composition. NAACL-HLT,
pages 236–244.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and WeiJing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In ACL, pages 311–
318. ACL.

1939

Roberto Pieraccini, David Suendermann, Krishna
Dayanidhi, and Jackson Liscombe. 2009. Are we
there yet? research in commercial spoken dialog systems. In International Conference on Text,
Speech and Dialogue, pages 3–13.

Min Yang, Qiang Qu, Kai Lei, Jia Zhu, Zhou Zhao,
Xiaojun Chen, and Joshua Z Huang. 2018. Investigating deep reinforcement learning techniques in
personalized dialogue generation. In SIAM, pages
630–638.

Alan Ritter, Colin Cherry, and William B. Dolan. 2011.
Data-driven response generation in social media. In
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 583–593.

Saizheng Zhang, Emily Dinan, Jack Urbanek, Arthur
Szlam, Douwe Kiela, and Jason Weston. 2018. Personalizing dialogue agents: I have a dog, do you
have pets too? In ACL, pages 2204–2213.

Vasile Rus and Mihai Lintean. 2012. A comparison of
greedy and optimal assessment of natural language
student input using word-to-word similarity metrics.
In Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop on Building
Educational Applications Using NLP, pages 157–
162. ACL.
Iulian V. Serban, Alessandro Sordoni, Yoshua Bengio,
Aaron Courville, and Joelle Pineau. 2015. Building
end-to-end dialogue systems using generative hierarchical neural network models. (4):3776–3783.

Wei-Nan Zhang, Qingfu Zhu, Yifa Wang, Yanyan
Zhao, and Ting Liu. 2017. Neural personalized response generation as domain adaptation. WWW,
pages 1–20.
Tiancheng Zhao, Ran Zhao, and Maxine Eskenazi.
2017. Learning discourse-level diversity for neural
dialog models using conditional variational autoencoders. ACL.

Iulian Vlad Serban, Alessandro Sordoni, Ryan Lowe,
Laurent Charlin, Joelle Pineau, Aaron C Courville,
and Yoshua Bengio. 2017. A hierarchical latent
variable encoder-decoder model for generating dialogues. In AAAI, pages 3295–3301.
Xiaoyu Shen, Hui Su, Yanran Li, Wenjie Li, Shuzi
Niu, Yang Zhao, Akiko Aizawa, and Guoping Long.
2017. A conditional variational framework for dialog generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.00316.
Xiaoyu Shen, Hui Su, Shuzi Niu, and Vera Demberg. 2018.
Improving variational encoderdecoders in dialogue generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1802.02032.
Heung-Yeung Shum, Xiao-dong He, and Di Li. 2018.
From eliza to xiaoice: challenges and opportunities
with social chatbots. Frontiers of Information Technology &amp; Electronic Engineering, 19(1):10–
26.
Chongyang Tao, Wei Wu, Can Xu, Wenpeng Hu,
Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. One time of
interaction may not be enough: Go deep with an
interaction-over-interaction network for response selection in dialogues. In Proceedings of the 57th
Conference of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, pages 1–11.
Zhaopeng Tu, Yang Liu, Shuming Shi, and Tong
Zhang. 2018. Learning to remember translation history with a continuous cache. Transactions of the
Association of Computational Linguistics, 6:407–
420.
Rui Yan, Song Yiping, and Wu Hua. 2016. Learning
to respond with deep neural networks for retrievalbased human-computer conversation system. In SIGIR, pages 55–64.

1940

