RPM-Oriented Query Rewriting Framework for
E-commerce Keyword-Based Sponsored Search (Student Abstract)
Xiuying Chen1,2 , Daorui Xiao3 , Shen Gao2 , Guojun Liu3 , Wei Lin3 , Bo Zheng3 , Dongyan Zhao1,2 , Rui Yan1,2∗
1

arXiv:1910.12527v2 [cs.CL] 11 Jan 2020

2

Center for Data Science, Peking University, Beijing, China,
Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University, China 3 Alibaba Group, China
Email: xy-chen@pku.edu.cn

Abstract
Sponsored search optimizes revenue and relevance, which is
estimated by Revenue Per Mille (RPM). Existing sponsored
search models are all based on traditional statistical models, which have poor RPM performance when queries follow a heavy-tailed distribution. Here, we propose an RPMoriented Query Rewriting Framework (RQRF) which outputs
related bid keywords that can yield high RPM. RQRF embeds both queries and bid keywords to vectors in the same
implicit space, converting the rewriting probability between
each query and keyword to the distance between the two vectors. For label construction, we propose an RPM-oriented
sample construction method, labeling keywords based on
whether or not they can lead to high RPM. Extensive experiments are conducted to evaluate performance of RQRF. In a
one month large-scale real-world traffic of e-commerce sponsored search system, the proposed model significantly outperforms traditional baseline.

To overcome obstacles mentioned above, we come up
with an RPM-oriented Query Rewrite Framework (RQRF).
RQRF embeds both queries and bid keywords to vectors in
the same implicit space. Specifically, we combine a modified
version of a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a selfattention mechanism to learn representations of queries and
bid keywords. For the label construction, since users click
on ads instead of the bid keywords, we propose an RPMoriented sampling method to bridge the gap between labeled
ads and unlabeled keywords.

Model
′

q
′

′

Distance(q , b ) ∝ RPM(q, b)

MLP
′

b
′

Self-attention Layer

q

Introduction
Web search seeks to optimize relevance, while sponsored
search optimizes RPM, which takes both relevance and bid
price together into consideration. Obviously, it is not possible for advertisers to identify and collect all relevant bid
keywords to target their ads. A common mechanism to solve
this problem is query rewriting, which outputs a list of bid
keywords (rewrites) that are related to a given query. Query
rewriting has been extensively studied in the context of traditional web search. Initial studies only focuses on the relevance between a query and bid keyword, without considering the traffic allocation mechanism on the bid keyword side
to maximize revenue. More comprehensive works are based
on graphs. For example, (Malekian et al. 2008) formulates a
family of graph covering problems whose goals are to suggest a subset of ads with the maximum benefit by suggesting
rewrites for a given query. However, these models also have
shortcomings: (1) Each query is regarded as a non-splittable
graph node, which hinders the full understanding of queries.
(2) They are all essentially statistic-based memory models,
and thus cannot handle heavy-tailed ads.
∗

Corresponding author: Rui Yan (ruiyan@pku.edu.cn)
Copyright c 2020, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.

Convolutional Layer
Embedding
Module

Embedding
Module

Word Representation Layer
w

q

1

c

q

b

Bid Keyword

Figure 1: Overview
of RQRF

2

c

w

q

c

c

3

q

q

white

Nike

sports

2

w

q

q

1

Query

w

q

3

4

q

4

shoes

Figure 2: Illustration of
the Embedding Module.

Embedding Module. As shown in Figure 1, our model
maps each query-bidword pair to a low dimensional vector q 0 and b0 respectively. We first introduce the embedding
module using query as an example, as shown in Figure 2. Bid
keywords are embedded in a similar way. We adopt standard
techniques to obtain the embedding of each word qt by concatenating its word embedding qtw and character embedding
qtc . The output of a given word qt from this layer is calculated as mt = [qtw , qtc ], where “[,]” denotes the concatenation between vectors.
Next, a novel deep convolutional neural network architecture from (Chollet 2017) and the self-attention mechanism

are adopted, producing αt . In this way, the model learns the
interactions and exchanges of information between words
by itself. Finally, a fully-connected layer is applied to obtain
the final query embedding:
0

q = F C([a1 , a2 , ..., aT ]).

(1)

Label Construction. Since there are no click labels on bid
keywords, only click labels on ads. Herein, we propose an
RPM-oriented sampling method to construct limited number
of training samples, which greatly reduces the size of training data and mitigates the Matthew effect. Let the number
of ads that bid on keyword bi be nbi , and the price ad a bid
on bi be price(bi |a) for a sample < q, a >. The probability
of keyword bi being positively sampled, i.e. score(bi |q, a) is
calculated as:
price(bi |a) × relevance(bi , q)
,
score(bi |q, a) =
log (nbi + 1)
where relevance(bi , q) = cosine(bi , q). Note that the relevance is calculated by pre-trained word embeddings instead of embedding in our model. We add factor nbi to allow the model to choose keywords that are not that popular, in order to balance advertisement competition. As
for the relevance(bi , q) factor, it is used to enhance the
importance of relevance between query and bid keyword.
Then the scores of all keywords bought by advertisement a
are normalized and we obtain the final sample probability
p(bi |a, q). where B(a) represents all keywords bought by
a. This sampling method leads to a positive correlation between the probability that q matches bi and the RPM value.
The details of derivation are attached in Appendix.
After obtaining the value of p, we use p as a sampling
probability to find positive keyword samples, and 1 − p as a
sampling probability to obtain negative samples. The training objective is to maximize the cosine distance between a
query embedding and positive keyword embeddings.

Experiments
Dataset. We use the search logs from one of the largest ecommerce websites in China to train RQRF. Overall, there
are 9.8 billion training cases and 66 million evaluation and
66 million test cases. On average, there are 3.94 words and
8.66 characters in queries and 2.88 words and 6.34 characters in bid keywords.
Offline Evaluation Apart from NLL, we also employ
commonly-used ranking metrics, including mean average
precision (MAP), mean reciprocal rank (MRR) and normalized discounted cumulative gain (NDCG) to evaluate
RQRF. We compare our query embedding model with various baselines, including BM25, PM(non-linear projection),CLSM(Ahsan and Agrawal 2018),BIDAF(Seo et al.
2016). The main results of our experiments are summarized
in Table 1 where RQRF outperforms all baselines. Statistical significance of observed differences between the performance of two runs are tested using a two-tailed paired
t-test and is denoted using N (or H ) for strong significance for
α = 0.01.
Online Evaluation. RQRF is deployed on a real-world
commercial search engine to serve ads as part of A/B

Table 1: Comparison with query embedding baselines.
Models

NLL

MAP

MRR

NDCG

BM25
PM
BIDAF
CLSM
RQRF

0.870
0.662
0.623
0.631
0.617H

0.149
0.166
0.180
0.191
0.207 N

0.009
0.011
0.012
0.014
0.015N

0.157
0.191
0.201
0.226
0.253N

testing. The traditional statistic-based memory model from
(Malekian et al. 2008) is used as the control model and
RQRF as the treatment. The flight tests are conducted for
a period of one month. The online results are summarized
in Table 2. Our model outperforms the baseline in the head
traffic by 8.79% in RPM value. For tail queries, our model
achieves consistently better performance, outperforming the
baseline by 16.44%. This demonstrates that our model is
especially effective for tail queries. The ads retrieved by
RQRM account for 24.7% of the total queries in the online
test, and bring about 3.07% RPM increase in total traffic.
Table 2: RPM lift rate result on head and tail of query distribution.
Traffic type

RPM Lift Rate

Head
Tail
Head&Tail

8.79%
16.44%
12.75%

Conclusion
In this paper, we propose an RQRM query rewriting model
that outputs related bid keywords for a given query. We are
the first to apply a deep neural network model in a keywordbased sponsored search system. Extensive experiments are
conducted to evaluate the performance of RQRF.

Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (No. 2017YFC0804001), the National Science Foundation of China (NSFC No. 61876196 and NSFC
No. 61672058). Rui Yan was sponsored by Alibaba Innovative Research (AIR) Grant.

References
Ahsan, H., and Agrawal, R. 2018. Approximating categorical similarity in sponsored search relevance. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.00158.
Chollet, F. 2017. Xception: Deep learning with depthwise
separable convolutions. arXiv preprint 1610–02357.
Malekian, A.; Chang, C.-C.; Kumar, R.; and Wang, G. 2008.
Optimizing query rewrites for keyword-based advertising.
In ACM EC, 10–19. ACM.
Seo, M.; Kembhavi, A.; Farhadi, A.; and Hajishirzi, H.
2016. Bidirectional attention flow for machine comprehension. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.01603.

Appendix
Dataset

earnings that accrue for every 1000 impressions received and
is calculated as:

We use the search logs from one of the largest e-commerce
websites in China to train RQRF. For each query, we use
the RPM-sampling method to obtain corresponding positive
and negative keywords. The positive keyword number is the
click number of each query, and negative keyword number
is four times the positive number. Since matched ads will
be clicked more times, thus will generate more query-ads
pairs. In this way, RQRF implicitly learns to relate queries
to keywords that bought by matched ads. It is worth noting that in practice, each query belongs to one category, and
only keywords belonging to this category will be retrieved
as candidates to be sampled. Evaluations are also conducted
among bid keywords in the corresponding category. Overall, there are 9.8 billion training cases and 66 million evaluation and test cases. On average, there are 3.94 words and
8.66 characters in queries and 2.88 words and 6.34 characters in bid keywords. We employ the distributed Tensorflow
machine learning platform1 deployed on a large-scale computing cluster to train our model.

In order to explore the impact of the internal structure of
RQRF, we conduct an ablation study in Table 3. RQRFCNN, RQRF-Attention, RQRF-MLP represent RQRF without CNN, attention, and MLP module, respectively. The
performances of all ablation models are worse than that
of RQRF, which demonstrates the preeminence of RQRF.
Specifically, the module that makes the greatest contribution
to RQRF is the convolutional layer, without which MAP,
MRR, and NDCG drops by 15.9%, 10%, and 23.3%, respectively.
Table 3: Performance of different ablation models.
Models

NLL

MAP

MRR

NDCG

RQRF-CNN
RQRF-Attention
RQRF-MLP
RQRF

0.653
0.676
0.662
0.617

0.174
0.177
0.176
0.207

0.014
0.011
0.012
0.015

0.194
0.197
0.194
0.253

Deduction
Remember that the sample score is calculated as:
relevance(bi , q)
log (nbi + 1)
∝ price(bi |a) × f (bi , q),
relevance(bi , q)
where f (bi , q) =
,
log(nbi + 1)
relevance(bi , q) = cosine(bi , q)
score(bi |q, a) = price(bi |a) ×

Here we provide a brief derivation to show that this sampling
method leads to a positive correlation between the probability that q matches bi and the RPM value. RPM estimates
https://www.tensorflow.org/

(2)
(3)
(4)

where request(q) is the request amount of query q,
click(aj , q) is the click number of ad aj for query q. The
rewriting probability is calculated as:
Pnbi
p (bi |q) = j=1
p (bi |aj , q) × p (aj |q)
(5)
Pnbi
click(aj ,q)
= j=1 f (bi , q) × price (aj , bi ) × request(q)
(6)


Pnbi
click(aj ,q)
= f (bi , q) × j=1 price (aj , bi ) × request(q)
(7)
= f (bi , q) × RPM (q, bi )

(8)

Above derivation leads to :
p(bi |q) ∝ RPM(q, bi )

Ablation Study

1

revenue(q, bi )
request(q)
Pnbi
j=1 (price (aj , bi ) × click (aj , q))
=
request (q)

Pnbi 
click(aj ,q)
,
= j=1 price (aj , bi ) × request(q)

RPM(q, bi ) =

(9)

That is, the probability that q matches bi is proportional to
the expectation of RPM, and inversely proportional to the
number of advertisements bid on bi .

