Towards Improving Faithfulness in Abstractive
Summarization
Xiuying Chen1

arXiv:2210.01877v1 [cs.CL] 4 Oct 2022

1

Mingzhe Li2

Xin Gao1∗

Xiangliang Zhang3,1∗

Computational Bioscience Reseach Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
2
Ant Group
3
University of Notre Dame
{xiuying.chen, xin.gao}@kaust.edu.sa, limingzhe.lmz@antgroup.com,xzhang33@nd.edu

Abstract
Despite the success achieved in neural abstractive summarization based on pretrained language models, one unresolved issue is that the generated summaries are
not always faithful to the input document. There are two possible causes of the
unfaithfulness problem: (1) the summarization model fails to understand or capture
the gist of the input text, and (2) the model over-relies on the language model
to generate fluent but inadequate words. In this work, we propose a Faithfulness
Enhanced Summarization model (FES), which is designed for addressing these
two problems and improving faithfulness in abstractive summarization. For the
first problem, we propose to use question-answering (QA) to examine whether the
encoder fully grasps the input document and can answer the questions on the key
information in the input. The QA attention on the proper input words can also
be used to stipulate how the decoder should attend to the source. For the second
problem, we introduce a max-margin loss defined on the difference between the
language and the summarization model, aiming to prevent the overconfidence of the
language model. Extensive experiments on two benchmark summarization datasets,
CNN/DM and XSum, demonstrate that our model significantly outperforms strong
baselines. The evaluation of factual consistency also shows that our model generates
more faithful summaries than baselines2 .

1

Introduction

In recent years, text generation has made impressive progress [1, 2, 3]. The abstractive summarization
task, aiming to produce a concise and fluent summary that is salient and faithful to the source
document, has become a research hotspot due to its broad application prospect. The prevalence of
pretrained transformer language models (LM) [4, 5] has largely improved the fluency and salience
of generated summaries. However, studies [6, 7] showed that many summarization models suffer
from unfaithfulness problem, i.e., the generated summary is not entailed by the information presented
in the source document. Durmus et al. [8] highlighted two notions of the unfaithfulness problem in
summarization: one is the manipulation of information presented in the input document (intrinsic
errors), and the other is the inclusion of information not inferable from the input (extrinsic errors).
The Intrinsic error problem is often caused by the failure of document level inference, which is
necessary for abstractive summarization. Specifically, the summarization model has misinformation
inferred from the input document because of an inadequate encoder that misunderstands the source
semantic information and a poor decoder that cannot fetch relevant and consistent content from the
∗
2

corresponding author
https://github.com/iriscxy/FES

36th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2022).

encoder. Several recent summarization models were proposed from this perspective. For example,
Wu et al. [9] proposed a unified semantic graph encoder to learn better semantic meanings and a
graph-aware decoder to utilize the encoded information. Cao et al. [10] used contrastive learning
to help the model be aware of the factual information. The second type of error, extrinsic error, is
often introduced by excessive attention paid to the LM, which ensures fluency while neglecting to
summarize the source document. For example, a LM is inclined to generate the commonly-used
phrase “score the winner” while the correct phrase is “score the second highest” which is less
frequently used. This type of error has been studied in the neural machine translation task [11], but
has not been addressed in abstractive summarization.
To address these errors, we propose a novel Faithfulness Enhanced Summarization model (FES).
To prevent the intrinsic error problem, we design FES in a multi-task learning paradigm, i.e.,
completing encoding-decoding for the summarization task with an auxiliary QA-based faithfulness
evaluation task. The QA task poses an additional reasoning requirement on the encoder to have a
more comprehensive understanding on the key semantic meanings of the input document and learn
better representations than working only for summarization. The QA attention on the key entities of
the input can also be used to align the decoder state with the encoder outputs for generating a faithful
summary. To address the extrinsic error problem, we propose a max-margin loss to prevent the LM
from being overconfident. Concretely, we define an indicator of the overconfidence degree of the
LM. The risk of outputting extrinsic error tokens with low prediction probabilities is mitigated by
minimizing this overconfidence indicator.
We validate the effectiveness of our FES model by conducting extensive experiments on public
benchmark CNN/DM [12] and XSum [13] datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that our
faithfulness enhanced summarization model has superior performance on the ROUGE scores and
improves the faithfulness of news summarization over several strong baselines.
Our main contributions can be summarized as follows. (1) We propose a faithfulness enhanced
summarization model, which alleviates the unfaithfulness problem from the encoder side and decoder
side. (2) Concretely, we propose a multi-task framework to enhance the summarization performance
by automatic QA tasks. We also propose a max-margin loss to control the overconfident problem
of the LM. (3) Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed approach brings substantial
improvements over the most recent baselines on benchmark datasets, and can also improve the
faithfulness of the generated summary.

2

Related Work

Abstractive Summarization. In recent years, the research on text generation has made impressive
progress [14, 15, 16], which promotes the progress of abstractive summarization. The abstractive
summarization task generates novel words and phrases not featured in the source text to capture the
salient ideas of the source text [17]. Most works apply an encoder-decoder architecture to implicitly
learn the summarization procedure [18, 19]. More recently, applying pretrained language models
as encoder [4, 20] or pre-training the generation process by leveraging a large-scale of unlabeled
corpus [21, 22] brings significant improvements. Explicit structure modeling has also been shown to
be effective in summarization tasks. For example, Jin et al. [23] incorporated semantic dependency
graphs to help generate sentences with better semantic relevance, and Wu et al. [9] came up with a
unified semantic graph to aggregate relevant disjoint context from the input.
Fact Consistency for Abstractive Summarization. Producing a summary that is entailed by the
information presented in the source document is a key challenge in the summarization task, and less
progress has been made on it. Pioneer works [24, 25] incorporated fact descriptions or entailment
knowledge to enhance faithfulness. More recently, Zhu et al. [26] modeled the facts in the source
article with knowledge graphs based on a graph neural network. Cao et al. [10] proposed to leverage
reference summaries as positive training data and erroneous summaries as negative data, to train
summarization systems that are better at distinguishing between them. Aralikatte et al. [27] introduced
focus attention mechanism to encourage decoders to proactively generate tokens that are similar
or topical to the input document. On the contrary, other works post-edit the generated summaries.
Different from previous works, we enhance the semantic understanding of the document with
faithfulness evaluation as a direct signal and prevent the overconfidence of LM which is not addressed
before.
2

Summarization model training

Faithfulness evaluation after training

Questions

Questions

Ground-truth
Answers

Ground-truth Summary

&'

QA-enhanced
Decoder

$%#

Document

Generated Summary

ℒ(

Generated
Answers

Generated
Answers

ℒ%
Generated Summary

ℒ&'

Document

!"#

&'

Ground-truth Summary

Multi-task
Encoder

Ground-truth
Answers

(b) Our faithfulness-enhanced summarization model

(a) Existing QA-based faithfulness evaluation model

Figure 1: The comparison of the existing QA-based faithfulness evaluation model and our
faithfulness-enhanced summarization model. The QA task integrated in our model provides an
auxiliary supervision signal to understand the document in the training process and enhance the
faithfulness of the generated summary.
Multi-task Learning. Multi-task learning is a learning paradigm in machine learning and it aims to
leverage useful information contained in multiple related tasks to help improve the generalization
performance of all the tasks [28]. There is a large quantity of natural language processing tasks
formulated by multi-task learning, such as word segmentation, POS tagging, dependency parsing,
and text classification [29, 30, 31, 32]. In this work, we apply multi-task learning to summarization
and question-answering tasks for faithfulness enhancement.

3

Methodology

3.1

Problem Formulation

For an input document X = {x1 , ..., xnx }, we assume there is a ground truth summary Y =
{y1 , . . . , yny }. In our faithfulness enhanced setting, nq question answering pairs Q = {Q1 , ..., Qnq }
with corresponding answers A = {A1 , ..., Anq } are also attached with X. In the training process,
our model is given QA pairs and document-summary pairs. It tries to extract answers A to the
questions and generate the summary Y . In test stage, our model is given document X and questions
Q, and predicts the answers and summary. The final goal is to generate a summary that is not only
informative but also consistent with document X.
Following, we introduce our proposed Faithfulness Enhanced Summarization model, which is
generally built on Transformer [33]. The faithfulness enhancement is implemented from three
aspects: (1) Multi-task Encoder. It improves the semantic understanding of the input document by
examining the quality of the encoded document representations for an auxiliary QA task. The encoded
representation thus captures the key inputs for making faithful summary. (2) QA Attention-enhanced
Decoder. The attention from the multi-task encoder aligns the decoder with the encoder so that the
decoder can fetch more accurate input information to generate the summary. (3) Max-margin Loss.
This is a loss orthogonal to the generation loss. It measures the accuracy of the LM and prevents it
from being overconfident in the generation process.
3.2

Multi-task Encoder

The multi-task encoder is designed for encoding the input document for both summarization and question-answering in an
integrated training process, as shown in Figure 1(b). This is
different from the previous work that uses QA in the postgeneration stage for evaluating the faithfulness of the generated
summaries [8, 7], as shown in Figure 1(a). We bring the QA
closer to the encoder instead of leaving it for post-generated
summary, and make the encoder be trained to accomplish the
QA and summarization task in the meantime. This integrated
training of a multi-task encoder includes faithfulness also as an
optimization objective, besides the summary generation quality.
3

Question nodes:
Sentence nodes:

Entity nodes:

Transformer Encoder
Questions

Document

Figure 2: Multi-task encoder.

The answers are key entities from the document so that QA pairs focus on key information in the
input.
As shown in Figure 2, we first apply the classic Transformer architecture to obtain token-level
representations for the document and questions, denoted as Hw ∈ Rnw ×de and Hu ∈ Rnq ×tq ×de ,
where nw is the total number of tokens in the document, nq is the question number, tq is the token
number in a question, and de is the feature dimension. Then, we design the encoder to understand the
question and the input document question from entity levels and sentence levels.
Encoding at Multi-level Granularity. We build the encoder by organizing the representation
learning at different granularity levels. We use entities as the basic semantic unit as they contain
compact and salient information across the document, and the reading comprehension questions
focus on entities. Since a question is usually short, we create one node for each question. We add
bidirectional edges from the questions to sentence nodes, and from sentence to entity nodes. These
nodes act as the intermediary between sentences and enrich the cross-sentence relations. Because
the initial directed edges are insufficient for learning backward information, we add reverse edges
and self-loop edges to the graph following previous works [34]. We initialize node representations
following the token level and word span level mean-pooling process [9].
Given the constructed graph with node features, we use graph attention networks [35] to update the
representations of our semantic nodes. We refer to h̃i ∈ Rde , i ∈ {1, · · · , (ne + ns + nq )} as the
hidden states of input nodes, where ne and ns are the number of entity nodes and sentence nodes,
respectively. The graph attention (GAT) layer is designed as follows:

h
i
P
exp (zij )
, li = σ( j∈Ni αij Wd h̃j ),
zij = LeakyReLU Wa Wb h̃i ; Wc h̃j , αij = P
l∈Ni exp (zil )
where Ni is the set of neighboring nodes of node i, Wa , Wb , Wc , Wd are trainable weights and
αij is the attention weight between h̃i and h̃j . Besides, we add a residual connection to avoid
gradient vanishing after several iterations: hi = h̃i + li . We iteratively use the above GAT layer and
position-wise feed-forward layer [33] to update each node representation. The output entity feature
matrix, sentence feature matrix, and question matrix, are denoted as He ∈ Rne ×de , Hs ∈ Rns ×de ,
and Hq ∈ Rnq ×de , respectively.
Answer Selector for the QA task. After fusing information from the question and the document,
we can select entities from the document as the answer to the question. Concretely, we apply the
multi-head cross attention (MHAtt) between the question and the entities from the graph: hiqe =

MHAtt hie , Hq , Hq to obtain question-aware entity representations, where i is the question index.
Based on the question-aware entity representations, we employ a feed-forward network (FFN) to
generate the entity extracting probabilities Ai = FFN(hiqe ), where Ai = (ai1 , ..., aine ). The QA
objective is to maximize the likelihood of all ground-truth entity labels â:

Pnq Pne
i
Lc = i=1
(1)
j=1 P âj .
3.3

QA Attention-enhanced Decoder

A faithful decoder needs to attend to and fetch the important content from the encoder instead of
mixing the inputs. We observe from §3.2 that the QA attentions on the key entities can be regarded as
importance signals indicating which entities should be included in the summary. Hence, we propose
a summary generator enhanced by QA attention. Generally, the decoder state attends to the encoder
states with entities as intermediates, where the entity-level attention is guided by QA attentions.
Concretely, for each layer, at the t-th decoding step, we apply the self-attention on the masked
summary embeddings E, obtaining ut . The masking mechanism ensures that the prediction of the
position t depends only on the outputs before t. Based on ut , we then compute the cross-attention
scores cet over entities.
ut = MHAtt (et , E<t , E<t ) , cet = MHAtt (ut , He , He ) .

(2)

In effect, the first attention layer captures contextual features of the decoded sequence, while the
second incorporates entity information in cet . Herein, we minimize the bidirectional Kullback-Leibler
4

Small Max-Margin Loss

(a)

Large Max-margin Loss

(b)

!!"#$ given
the summarization model

!!"#$ given
the language model

Candidate Target Candidate
word1 word word2

Candidate Target Candidate
word1 word
word2

Candidate Target Candidate
word1 word word2

Candidate Target Candidate
word1 word word2

Baseline Model

Our Model

Baseline Model

Our Model

Figure 3: Max-margin loss for summarization model. (a) When the LM is accurate (the highest
Pword in blue for the target word), the correct target word is also predicted by both baseline and our
summarization model with the highest Pword . (b) When the LM is not accurate enough (the highest
Pword in blue for a wrong candidate word2), our model can prevent the overconfidence of LM by
max-margin loss and predict the correct target word, while the baseline model does not.
(KL) divergence between the QA attention Ai and the summarization attention Et on the entities at
the t-th step, to help the summarization model learn what entities are important:

Pnq i Pny
LKL = DKL
(3)
t=1 Et ,
i=1 A k
where ny is the number of tokens in the ground truth summary. Note that this objective guides the
cross-attention to capture correct contextual information rather than to only learn the QA attention
distribution. So we only employ it on parts of attention heads to avoid “overfitting” to the QA task.
We then use the entity-level attention to guide the selection of source tokens related to the key entities,
by applying another MHAtt layer on source word sequence Hw and cet :
vt = MHAtt (cet , Hw , Hw ) .

(4)

This context vector vt , treated as salient contents summarized from various sources, is sent to an
FNN to produce the distribution over the target vocabulary, i.e., Pt = Softmax (FFN(vt )). All the
learnable parameters are updated by optimizing the negative log likelihood objective function of
predicting the target words:
Pny
Ls = − t=1
log Pt (yt ) .
(5)
3.4

Max-margin Loss

Previous works [36, 37] suggest that a poorly-informed decoder will neglect some source segments,
function more as an open-ended LM, and thus will be prone to extrinsic errors. Inspired by faithfulness
enhanced machine translation works [38, 39], we introduce a max-margin loss into the summarization
task, for maximizing the difference of the predicted probability for each token of the summarization
model and LM as shown in Figure 3, which suppresses the tendency of summarizer to generate
common but unfaithful words. Concretely, we first define the margin between the summarizer and
the LM as the difference of the predicted probabilities:
mt = Pt (yt | y<t , X) − PtLM (yt | y<t ) ,

(6)

where X is the input document, and PtLM denotes the predicted probability of the t-th token of the
LM. Note that the language model has no access to the input document, and only takes the decoded
summary prefix as input. Intuitively, if mt is large, then the summarization model is apparently
better than the LM. When mt is small, there are two possibilities. One is that both the LM and the
summarization model have good performance, hence the predicted probabilities should be similar.
The other possibility is the LM is not good enough but overconfident, which leads to a summarizer
with poor performance.
Hence, we present the max-margin loss Lm , which adds a coefficient to the margin:

Pny
Lm = t=1
(1 − Pt ) 1 − m5t /2,

(7)

where we abbreviate Pt (yt | y<t , X) as Pt . The term (1 − m5t )/2 is a non-linear monotonically
decreasing function in regard to mt , which ensures the optimization of maximizing mt . We choose
Quintic function (fifth power) here as it is shown to be more stable [39]. The first factor (1 − Pt )
5

is for fitting the two possibilities we discussed above. When Pt is large, the summarization model
learns the yt well and does not need to pay too much attention on mt . This is reflected by (1 − Pt ), a
small coefficient of mt . On the other hand, when Pt is small, it means that the summarizer needs
to be better optimized, and a large coefficient (1 − Pt ) enables the model is able to learn from the
margin information.
The above four losses, Lc , Ls , LKL , and Lm are orthogonal and can be combined to improve
faithfulness.

4

Experiment

4.1

Experimental Setup

Datasets. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on two public datasets, CNN/DM and
XSum, which have been widely used in previous summarization works. Both datasets are based on
news and consist of a large number of events, entities, and relationships that can be used to test the
factual consistency of summarization models.
Note that our summarization model is accompanied by a QA task. Hence, we pre-construct QA pairs
for each case using QuestEval tool provided by Scialom et al. [7]. Concretely, QuestEval first selects
a set of the named entities and nouns as answers from the source document. Then, it uses a finetuned
answer-conditional question generation T5 [40] model to generate questions via beam search. To
ensure the quality of the QA pairs, we only select those questions for which the question-answering
model [7] gives the right answers. Finally, we take 38 QA pairs for CNN/DM and 27 pairs for XSum
on average. For training the summarization model, intuitively, we want the questions to focus on
the key information in the input. Hence, we select the pairs where the answers have the highest
ROUGE-L scores with the target summaries as oracle pairs. A BART-based extraction model [22]
is then trained to predict important answers (QA pairs). Dou et al. [41] showed that it brings more
benefits when using the oracle guidance in the training phase. Hence, for the training dataset, we use
the oracle QA pairs, i.e., the first 8 pairs with the highest ROUGE scores as input. For validation and
test, we use the pairs selected by the extraction model.
Baselines. We first compare our model with recent factual-consistent summarization models: (1)
FASum [26] is a model that extracts and integrates factual relations into the summary generation
process via graph attention. (2) CLIFF [10] leverages reference summaries as positive data and
erroneous summaries as negative data to train summarization systems. We also compare our proposed
model with recent abstractive summarization models: (3) BART [22] is a state-of-the-art abstractive
summarization model pretrained with a denoising autoencoding objective. (4) PEGASUS [21] is a
pre-training large Transformer-based encoder-decoder models for summarization task. (4) GSum [41]
is a summarization framework that can take external sentence guidance as input. (5) SimCLS [42]
bridges the gap between the learning objective and evaluation metrics by a reference-free evaluation.
Implementation Details. We implement our experiments in Huggingface [43] on 4 NVIDIA A100
GPUs. We build our models based on BART (facebook/bart-large) for CNN/DM and PEGASUS
(google/pegasus-xsum) for XSum following their hyperparameter settings, as they obtain better
performance on each dataset, respectively. The QA number is set to 8 unless otherwise stated. To
avoid the model from learning the position information of entities or questions, we sort the entities
and questions in alphabetical order. We use Adam optimizer with  as 1e-8 and β as (0.9, 0.999). The
learning rate is set to 3e-5. The warm-up is set to 500 steps for CNN/DM and 125 for XSum. The
batch size is set to 8 with gradient accumulation steps of 4. The beam size is set to 6 for CNN/DM
and 8 for XSum. For pretrained LM models, we finetune the vanilla BART-based or PEGASUS-based
LM on the CNN/DM and XSum dataset, respectively.
4.2

Main Results

Automatic Evaluation. We evaluate models using standard full-length ROUGE F1 [44]. ROUGE1 (RG-1), ROUGE-2 (RG-2), and ROUGE-L (RG-L) refer to the matches of unigram, bigrams,
and the longest common subsequence, respectively. We then use BERTScore [45] to calculate a
similarity score between the summaries based on their BERT embeddings. We also evaluate our
approach with the latest factual consistency metrics, FactCC [6] and QuestEval [7]. FactCC is a
weakly-supervised, model-based approach for verifying factual consistency. QuestEval considers not
6

Table 1: Comparisons with state-of-the-art models on CNN/DM and Xsum. Marked ROUGE results
are from [41, 42]. Numbers in bold mean that the improvement to the best baseline is statistically
significant (a two-tailed paired t-test with p-value <0.01).
Dataset

CNN/DM

XSum

Traditional Metric
RG-1 RG-2 RG-L
42.75 20.07 39.83
44.16 21.13 41.06
44.66 21.53 41.35
44.17 21.47 41.11
45.94 22.32 42.48
46.67 22.15 43.54
46.91 22.84 43.47
50.50 26.41 46.97

Model
FASum
CLIFF
BART*
PEGASUS*
GSum*
SimCLS*
FES
FES(oracle)
FES w/o multi
FES w/o QA attention
FES w/o margin
FES w/o key
FASum
CLIFF
BART*
PEGASUS*
GSum*
SimCLS*
FES

44.95
46.53
46.23
45.50
42.18
44.47
45.51
47.21
45.40
47.61
47.77

21.86
22.49
22.26
22.25
19.53
21.39
21.94
24.56
21.89
24.57
24.95

41.61
43.12
42.82
42.12
34.15
36.41
36.75
39.25
36.67
39.44
39.66

Advanced Metric
BERTScore FactCC
QE
88.35
49.86
30.30
88.62
51.58
33.28
88.36
51.11
31.93
88.27
50.98
31.84
88.64
53.51
33.98
88.78
53.21
33.83
89.54
55.23
35.50
90.01
59.25
39.11
88.93
89.27
89.22
89.03
90.46
91.48
91.32
91.25
90.45
91.28
92.05

54.18
54.85
54.60
54.47
17.27
20.05
19.91
20.69
20.61
20.80
22.34

34.90
35.22
34.93
34.78
19.01
22.91
20.36
22.63
22.48
22.97
25.83

only factual information in the generated summary, but also the most important information from its
source text, and finally gives a weighted F1 score QE.
The results are shown in Table 1. Among factual-consistent baselines, FASum performs relatively
poorly. One possible reason is that FASum is not trained on pretrained models. CLIFF achieves
better BERTScore and faithfulness scores than strong baseline BART. It can be seen that our model
outperforms GSum by 0.97 ROUGE-1, 0.90 BERTScore on CNN/DM dataset and 3.35 QE score
on XSum dataset, indicating questions in the multi-task provides better signals than important
sentences. Finally, our model outperforms the best baseline SimCLS significantly in most of the
metrics, especially in terms of faithfulness metrics (FactCC and QE), which proves the effectiveness
of our methods. We also show the performance of our model on the test dataset when using the oracle
QA pairs to evaluate the upper bound of the benefits brought by the QA task. We can see that oracles
improve the performance significantly, with the best-performing model achieving a ROUGE-1 score
of 50.50. The results indicate that 1) the model performance has the potential to be further improved
given better QA pairs; and 2) the model does benefit from the auxiliary QA task.
Human Evaluation. Since automatic evaluations are not perfect and can be misleading sometimes,
we further conduct a pairwise human evaluation to see whether our generated summaries are faithful
to the source document. Following Cao et al. [10], we randomly sample 100 cases from CNN/DM
and XSum, and then hire two fluent English speakers to evaluate summary informativeness (Inform.)
and factual consistency (Factual.). For each article, the annotators are shown summaries generated by
the baseline BART or PEGASUS model and two other systems. They then rate each system summary
against the baseline summary. Next, the annotators are asked to label text spans with intrinsic and
extrinsic errors. The compared models are baselines that achieve high automatic scores, and are
shown without system names.
Table 2: Human evaluation: percentages of sum- Table 3: Human evaluation: percentages of summaries that are worse than, tied with, or better maries that are worse than, tied with, or better
than BART on CNN/DM dataset.
than PEGASUS on XSum dataset.
Model

Inform.
Factual.
Lose↓Tie Win↑ Lose↓Tie Win↑

SimCLS 9% 75% 16% 7%
FES
6% 72% 22% 7%

Model

85% 8%
81% 12%

Inform.
Factual.
Lose↓Tie Win↑ Lose↓Tie Win↑

SimCLS 7% 86% 7% 8%
FES
6% 83% 11% 6%
7

79% 13%
78% 16%

Table 2 and Table 3 show the manual evaluation results. Firstly, we can find that there are larger
differences in terms of Informativeness on the CNN/DM datasets and in Factual consistency on
XSum datasets. This echos the attributes of the datasets, where the summaries in CNN/DM are
longer and cover more detailed information, while summaries in XSum are shorter and thus require
the summarization model to have advanced summarization ability. Secondly, our model is more
frequently rated as being more informative and more factual than SimCLS summaries on both datasets.
This is consistent with our automatic evaluation metrics. The kappa statistics are 0.53 and 0.59 for
informativeness and factual consistency respectively, indicating the moderate agreement between
annotators. The statistical significance between FES and PEGASUS is tested using a two-tailed
paired t-test for significance for α = 0.05.

Figure 4: (a) ROUGE scores w.r.t. the number of used QA pairs on CNN/DM. (b) The distribution
of margin mt of BART and FES. FES has mt much less negative, more around 0 and closer to 1,
indicating the alleviation of overconfidence issue of LM. (c) The distributions of margin mt on entity
words and all words. The proportion of entity words with mt around 0 is smaller, indicating that LM
is accurate in predicting function words.
4.3

Discussions

Ablation Study. We perform an ablation study on CNN/DM dataset to investigate the influence
of different modules in FES. First, we remove the multi-task framework to verify the effectiveness
of joint learning on summarization. This means that the QA attention-enhanced mechanism in the
decoder is also removed, so the model degrades to the BART summarizer with entity inputs and
max-margin loss. Secondly, we keep the QA task but replace the QA attention-enhanced decoder with
the vanilla Transformer decoder. Thirdly, we remove the max-margin loss to verify the influence of
the overconfidence of the LM. Additionally, we randomly select QA pairs to see if the understanding
of the model on the document has to be related to key information.
From the results in Table 1, we find without the multi-task framework, the performance of FES
drops greatly by 1.86 RG-L score, 0.43 BERTScore, and 0.60 QE score on CNN/DM dataset,
which indicates with the QA multi-task does strengthen the encoder to learn more comprehensive
representations. Next, the QE score drops by 0.28 after the QA attention guidance is removed. This
indicates that aligning the QA attention with the summarization attention on the important entities
can help the model capture gist information from the input, and restrict such loss on a limited part of
entities can guide the decoder to fetch meaningful content from the input. FactCC score drops by 0.63
after the max-margin loss is removed. It indicates that preventing the LM from being overconfident
can help increase faithfulness. Finally, the performance of FES drops when using random QA pairs as
guidance but outperforms BART by a large margin. This shows that enhancing the understanding of
the document is helpful even when it is not always related to the key information. But the performance
can be further improved by asking questions on key entities.
Table 4: Automatic evaluation results of Table 5: The percent of mt < 0 and average mt of our
the QA task.
model and baseline.
Model
FES w/o multi
FES

EM
76.34
77.77

F1
83.59
85.29

Model
BART
FES

Percent of mt < 0 (↓)
15.83% (ref)
13.50% (-2.33%)

Average mt (↑)
0.22 (ref)
0.33 (+0.11)

The Number of QA pairs. To investigate how the number of QA pairs influences the performance of
our model, we conduct experiments on the CNN/DM dataset with 6-14 oracle QA pairs. From results
8

Table 6: Examples of summaries generated by baseline models and our method. The original fact,
intrinsic error, extrinsic error and the corresponding faithful fact in each summary are highlighted.
Italic words are those predicted by the LM.
Relevant QA pair

Relevant Context

Baseline Summary (truncated)

Our Summary (truncated)

Q: Who is the unexpected
scorer of QPR’s equaliser?
A: Clint Hill

Defender Clint Hill was the unexpected
scorer of QPR’s equaliser just after halftime to make it 2-2. Hill grabs the Queens
Park Rangers badge in celebration after scoring his first ever Premier League goal.
The Ecuadorain Ambassador Ricardo
Patino then followed up with an apology
to Costa Rica and confirmed Ecuador had
sent a letter to the government to settle the
matter.
Sociedad seized the lead once more in
the 57th minute with a goal of the highest quality when Gonzalo Castro volleyed
homeSergio Canales’cross. But Deportivo
came roaring back once more
The Belgium striker was signed by Liverpool in a 10million deal after impressing
at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, before
being loaned back to Lille for the 2014-15
season.
On Thursday, NPR headquartered in Washington, just 40 miles away from Baltimore
ran its latest update on the urban turmoil that
has erupted in the wake of the death of 25year-old Freddie Gray

Christian Benteke equalised for the
hosts just three minutes later. Clint
Green put QPR ahead just after the
half hour mark .

Defender Clint Hill scored his first
ever Premier League goal to make it
2-2 just after half time at Villa Park.

The stunt sparked outrage from Costa
Rica, who complained to the authorities. Ecuador has since issued an
apology and accepted the government’s apology.
Lucas Perez equalised for Deportivo
La Coruna in the 40th minute. Gonzalo Castro scored the winner in the
57th minute for David Moyes ’ side.

Costa Rican tourism minister said
she was ’unhappy’ with the use of
her country’s image. Ecuador has
since issued an apology to Costa
Rica and sent a letter of apology.
Gonzalo Castro scored one of the
best goals of the season for David
Moyes’ side. Verdu Nicolas headed
home to give Deportivo the lead
with 12 minutes remaining.
Origi was loaned back to Lille for
the 2014-15 season after impressing
at the World Cup.

Q: What did Ecuador issue
after the Costa Rican government complained to the
Ecuadorian authorities? A:
An apology
Q: Who scored one goal for
Real Sociedad in the first
half? A: Real Sociedad midfielder Gonzalo Castro
Q: What season was he
loaned back to Lille? A:
2014-15 season
Q: What two groups were
at the height of tension? A:
Asian and African americans

Divock Origi joined Liverpool in a
£ 10million deal from Lille this summer. The Belgium striker was loaned
back to Lille for the 2014 - 15 season.
Ruben Navarrette: There ’s little evidence that Asian businesses were targeted out of racial animus.

Ruben Navarrette: NPR report on
Baltimore unrest focused on tension between African-Americans
and Asians.

in Figure 4(a), we see that the ROUGE score increases with the number of QA pairs, to begin with.
After reaching 8 pairs, the improvements begin to vanish. One possible reason is that the answers
no longer focus on the important information in the document. Note that the performance of FES
remains at a high level in the range of 8-15 QA pairs, demonstrating the effectiveness and robustness
of FES. At last, we choose to include 8 QA pairs in our model as default.
QA Task Evaluation. Since our framework also involves a question answering task, investigating
the QA performance is helpful for understanding the model. Concretely, we use exact match (EM)
and partial match (F1) to evaluate FES model and its ablation model, as shown in Table 4. Firstly,
we can see that with the multi-task framework, both scores show significant improvements. This
demonstrates that the two tasks can benefit each other, and the summarization task can also enhance
QA performance. Secondly, the EM and F1 scores of QA are relatively high, showing that our model
can also be used for answering questions on the document.
Margin between FES and the LM. We show the distribution of the margin mt defined in Eq. 6
from our FES and the BART in Figure 4(b). Firstly, there are still many tokens with negative mt
and a large amount of mt around 0 for BART. This indicates that the LM is probably overconfident
for many tokens, and addressing the overconfidence problem is meaningful for summarization. By
comparison, it can be seen that the number of negative margin cases is significantly reduced in FES
compared with BART. More precisely, we list the percentage of tokens with negative mt and the
average mt for each model in Table 5. Compared with BART, FES reduces the negative mt by 2.33%
and increases the average of mt by 0.11 points. This proves that the overconfidence problem of the
LM is solved to a great extent. Besides, we draw the comparison of mt on all words and entity words
in Figure 4(c). It can be seen that the proportion of around 0 for entity words is significantly reduced,
which verifies our assumption that LM is accurate for many function words.
Case Study. We show several representative cases in Table 6, including the relevant QA pairs and
relevant context from the source document, summaries generated by BART, PEGASUS, or SimCLS,
and by our model on two datasets. The first three cases show summaries with intrinsic errors from
baselines, because the baseline model misunderstands the source document. Our model makes faithful
summaries with the help of answering the questions. For the forth case with extrinsic errors, the
baseline summarization model and LM generate similar tokens, which are not included in the source
document. FES has no extrinsic error, as it alleviates the overconfidence of the LM by introducing the
max-margin loss. It is interesting to mention that the benefits brought by QA task and max-margin
loss can complement each other. For example, in the third case, both the QA pair and max-margin
loss prevent generating unfaithful information. We also show an error analysis in the last row. Both
9

generated summary include an unmentioned name, which can be found in the training dataset. A
post-edit operation might solve the problem, and we look forward to improving it in the future.

5

Conclusion

In this paper, we propose the multi-task framework with max-margin loss to generate faithful
summaries. The auxiliary question-answering task can enhance the model’s ability to understand the
source document, and the max-margin loss can prevent the overconfidence of the LM. Experimental
results show that our proposed model is effective across different datasets. In the future, we aim to
incorporate post-edit operation to improve faithfulness.
Generating faithful summaries is an important step toward real artificial intelligence. This work has
the potential positive impact on an intelligent and engaging reading system. At the same time, if
people rely too much on summarized systems of prompt reading, they may become less capable of
reading long documents. Besides, the pre-training model may be injected with malicious and vulgar
information, and results in server misleading summary. Therefore, we should be cautious of these
advantages and disadvantages.

Acknowledgments
We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments. This publication is
based upon work supported by the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST)
Office of Research Administration (ORA) under Award No FCC/1/1976-44-01, FCC/1/1976-45-01,
URF/1/4663-01-01, and BAS/1/1635-01-01. This work was also supported by Alibaba Group through
Alibaba Research Intern Program.

References
[1] Abigail See, Peter J. Liu, and Christopher D. Manning. Get to the point: Summarization with
pointer-generator networks. In Proc. of ACL, 2017.
[2] Min Sun, Wan Ting Hsu, Chieh-Kai Lin, Ming-Ying Lee, Kerui Min, and Jing Tang. A unified
model for extractive and abstractive summarization using inconsistency loss. In Proc. of ACL,
2018.
[3] Junyang Lin, Xu Sun, Shuming Ma, and Qi Su. Global encoding for abstractive summarization.
In Proc. of ACL, 2018.
[4] Yang Liu and Mirella Lapata. Text summarization with pretrained encoders. In Proc. of EMNLP,
2019.
[5] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In Proc. of AACL, 2019.
[6] Wojciech Kryściński, Bryan McCann, Caiming Xiong, and Richard Socher. Evaluating the
factual consistency of abstractive text summarization. In Proc. of EMNLP, 2020.
[7] Thomas Scialom, Paul-Alexis Dray, Sylvain Lamprier, Benjamin Piwowarski, Jacopo Staiano,
Alex Wang, and Patrick Gallinari. Questeval: Summarization asks for fact-based evaluation. In
Proc. of EMNLP, 2021.
[8] Esin Durmus, He He, and Mona Diab. Feqa: A question answering evaluation framework for
faithfulness assessment in abstractive summarization. In Proc. of ACL, 2020.
[9] Wenhao Wu, Wei Li, Xinyan Xiao, Jiachen Liu, Ziqiang Cao, Sujian Li, Hua Wu, and Haifeng
Wang. Bass: Boosting abstractive summarization with unified semantic graph. In Proc. of ACL,
2021.
[10] Shuyang Cao and Lu Wang. Cliff: Contrastive learning for improving faithfulness and factuality
in abstractive summarization. In Proc. of EMNLP, 2021.
10

[11] Daniel Adiwardana, Minh-Thang Luong, David R So, Jamie Hall, Noah Fiedel, Romal Thoppilan, Zi Yang, Apoorv Kulshreshtha, Gaurav Nemade, Yifeng Lu, et al. Towards a human-like
open-domain chatbot. arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.09977, 2020.
[12] Karl Moritz Hermann, Tomas Kocisky, Edward Grefenstette, Lasse Espeholt, Will Kay, Mustafa
Suleyman, and Phil Blunsom. Teaching machines to read and comprehend. In Proc. of NeurIPS,
2015.
[13] Shashi Narayan, Shay B Cohen, and Mirella Lapata. Don’t give me the details, just the summary!
topic-aware convolutional neural networks for extreme summarization. In Proc. of EMNLP,
2018.
[14] Xiuying Chen, Shen Gao, Chongyang Tao, Yan Song, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. Iterative
document representation learning towards summarization with polishing. EMNLP, 2018.
[15] Xiuying Chen, Zhangming Chan, Shen Gao, Meng-Hsuan Yu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan.
Learning towards abstractive timeline summarization. In Proc. of IJCAI, 2019.
[16] Xiuying Chen, Hind Alamro, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, Dongyan Zhao, and
Rui Yan. Capturing relations between scientific papers: An abstractive model for related work
section generation. In ACL, 2021.
[17] Linqing Liu, Yao Lu, Min Yang, Qiang Qu, Jia Zhu, and Hongyan Li. Generative adversarial
network for abstractive text summarization. In Proc. of AAAI, 2018.
[18] Sebastian Gehrmann, Yuntian Deng, and Alexander M Rush. Bottom-up abstractive summarization. In Proc. of MNLP, 2018.
[19] Asli Celikyilmaz, Antoine Bosselut, Xiaodong He, and Yejin Choi. Deep communicating agents
for abstractive summarization. In Proc. of AACL, 2018.
[20] Hao Zhou, Weidong Ren, Gongshen Liu, Bo Su, and Wei Lu. Entity-aware abstractive multidocument summarization. In Findings of ACL, 2021.
[21] Jingqing Zhang, Yao Zhao, Mohammad Saleh, and Peter J Liu. Pegasus: Pre-training with
extracted gap-sentences for abstractive summarization. Proc. of ICML, 2020.
[22] Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman Mohamed, Omer
Levy, Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer. Bart: Denoising sequence-to-sequence pretraining for natural language generation, translation, and comprehension. In Proc. of ACL,
2020.
[23] Hanqi Jin, Tianming Wang, and Xiaojun Wan. Semsum: Semantic dependency guided neural
abstractive summarization. In Proc. of AAAI, 2020.
[24] Ziqiang Cao, Furu Wei, Wenjie Li, and Sujian Li. Faithful to the original: Fact aware neural
abstractive summarization. In Proc. of AAAI, 2018.
[25] Haoran Li, Junnan Zhu, Jiajun Zhang, and Chengqing Zong. Ensure the correctness of the
summary: Incorporate entailment knowledge into abstractive sentence summarization. In Proc.
of COLING, 2018.
[26] Chenguang Zhu, William Hinthorn, Ruochen Xu, Qingkai Zeng, Michael Zeng, Xuedong
Huang, and Meng Jiang. Enhancing factual consistency of abstractive summarization. In Proc.
of AACL, 2021.
[27] Rahul Aralikatte, Shashi Narayan, Joshua Maynez, Sascha Rothe, and Ryan McDonald. Focus
attention: Promoting faithfulness and diversity in summarization. In Proc. of ACL, pages
6078–6095, 2021.
[28] Rich Caruana. Multitask learning. Machine learning, 1997.
[29] Bernd Bohnet and Joakim Nivre. A transition-based system for joint part-of-speech tagging and
labeled non-projective dependency parsing. In Proc. of EMNLP, 2012.
11

[30] Jun Hatori, Takuya Matsuzaki, Yusuke Miyao, and Jun’ichi Tsujii. Incremental joint approach
to word segmentation, pos tagging, and dependency parsing in chinese. In Proc. of ACL, 2012.
[31] Zhenghua Li, Min Zhang, Wanxiang Che, Ting Liu, and Wenliang Chen. Joint optimization for
chinese pos tagging and dependency parsing. IEEE/ACM transactions on audio, speech, and
language processing, 2013.
[32] Pengfei Liu, Xipeng Qiu, and Xuanjing Huang. Recurrent neural network for text classification
with multi-task learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1605.05101, 2016.
[33] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez,
Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In Proc. of NIPS, 2017.
[34] Rik Koncel-Kedziorski, Dhanush Bekal, Yi Luan, Mirella Lapata, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Text
generation from knowledge graphs with graph transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.02342,
2019.
[35] Petar Veličković, Guillem Cucurull, Arantxa Casanova, Adriana Romero, Pietro Lio, and Yoshua
Bengio. Graph attention networks. Proc. of ICLR, 2017.
[36] Bhuwan Dhingra, Manaal Faruqui, Ankur Parikh, Ming-Wei Chang, Dipanjan Das, and William
Cohen. Handling divergent reference texts when evaluating table-to-text generation. In Proc. of
ACL, 2019.
[37] Joshua Maynez, Shashi Narayan, Bernd Bohnet, and Ryan McDonald. On faithfulness and
factuality in abstractive summarization. In Proc. of ACL, 2020.
[38] Rongxiang Weng, Heng Yu, Xiangpeng Wei, and Weihua Luo. Towards enhancing faithfulness
for neural machine translation. In Proc. of EMNLP, 2020.
[39] Mengqi Miao, Fandong Meng, Yijin Liu, Xiao-Hua Zhou, and Jie Zhou. Prevent the language
model from being overconfident in neural machine translation. In Proc. of ACL, 2021.
[40] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena,
Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified
text-to-text transformer. Proc. of JMLR, 2019.
[41] Zi-Yi Dou, Pengfei Liu, Hiroaki Hayashi, Zhengbao Jiang, and Graham Neubig. Gsum: A
general framework for guided neural abstractive summarization. In Proc. of AACL, 2021.
[42] Yixin Liu and Pengfei Liu. Simcls: A simple framework for contrastive learning of abstractive
summarization. In Proc. of ACL, 2021.
[43] Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony
Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, et al. Transformers: State-ofthe-art natural language processing. In Proc. of EMNLP, 2020.
[44] Chin-Yew Lin. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Text summarization
branches out, 2004.
[45] Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi. Bertscore:
Evaluating text generation with bert. In Proc. of ICLR, 2020.

Checklist
1. For all authors...
(a) Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the paper’s
contributions and scope? [Yes]
(b) Did you describe the limitations of your work? [Yes] See broader impact section.
(c) Did you discuss any potential negative societal impacts of your work? [Yes] See
broader impact section.
12

(d) Have you read the ethics review guidelines and ensured that your paper conforms to
them? [Yes]
2. If you ran experiments...
(a) Did you include the code, data, and instructions needed to reproduce the main experimental results (either in the supplemental material or as a URL)? [Yes] See §4.1 and
supplemental material.
(b) Did you specify all the training details (e.g., data splits, hyperparameters, how they
were chosen)? [Yes] See §4.1 and supplemental material.
(c) Did you report error bars (e.g., with respect to the random seed after running experiments multiple times)? [Yes] See Table 1.
(d) Did you include the total amount of compute and the type of resources used (e.g.,
type of GPUs, internal cluster, or cloud provider)? [Yes] See §4.1 and supplemental
material.
3. If you are using existing assets (e.g., code, data, models) or curating/releasing new assets...
(a) If your work uses existing assets, did you cite the creators? [Yes] See §4.1 and
supplemental material.
(b) Did you mention the license of the assets? [No] The code and the data are proprietary.
(c) Did you include any new assets either in the supplemental material or as a URL? [Yes]
We include our code implementation in supplemental material.
(d) Did you discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose data you’re
using/curating? [Yes] The datasets are publicly available.
(e) Did you discuss whether the data you are using/curating contains personally identifiable
information or offensive content? [Yes] In §5.
4. If you used crowdsourcing or conducted research with human subjects...
(a) Did you include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if
applicable? [Yes] In supplemental material.
(b) Did you describe any potential participant risks, with links to Institutional Review
Board (IRB) approvals, if applicable? [No]
(c) Did you include the estimated hourly wage paid to participants and the total amount
spent on participant compensation? [No]

13

