JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

1

ScholarChemQA: Unveiling the Power of
Language Models in Chemical
Research Question Answering

arXiv:2407.16931v1 [cs.CL] 24 Jul 2024

Xiuying Chen, Tairan Wang, Taicheng Guo, KehanGuo, Juexiao Zhou, Haoyang Li, Mingchen Zhuge,
Jürgen Schmidhuber, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang
Abstract—Question Answering (QA) effectively evaluates language models’ reasoning and knowledge depth. While QA datasets are
plentiful in areas like general domain and biomedicine, academic chemistry is less explored. Chemical QA plays a crucial role in both
education and research by effectively translating complex chemical information into readily understandable format. Addressing this
gap, we introduce ScholarChemQA, a large-scale QA dataset constructed from chemical papers. Specifically, the questions are from
paper titles with a question mark, and the multi-choice answers are reasoned out based on the corresponding abstracts. We gathered
a collection of up to 40k instances, from which we annotated 1,050 answer labels for training, validation, and testing. This dataset
reflects typical real-world challenges, including an imbalanced data distribution and a substantial amount of unlabeled data that can be
potentially useful. Correspondingly, we introduce a QAMatch model, specifically designed to effectively answer chemical questions by
fully leveraging our collected data. We first address the issue of imbalanced label distribution by re-weighting the instance-wise loss
based on the inverse frequency of each class, ensuring minority classes are not dominated by majority ones during optimization. Next,
we utilize the unlabeled data to enrich the learning process, generating a variety of augmentations based on a SoftMix operation and
ensuring their predictions align with the same target, i.e., pseudo-labels. To ensure the quality of the pseudo-labels, we propose a
calibration procedure aimed at closely aligning the pseudo-label estimates of individual samples with a desired ground truth
distribution. Experiments show that our QAMatch significantly outperforms the recent similar-scale baselines and Large Language
Models (LLMs) not only on our ScholarChemQA dataset but also on four benchmark datasets. We hope our benchmark and model can
facilitate and promote more research on chemical QA.
Index Terms—Question answering, Information retrieval, Knowledge discovery

✦

1

I NTRODUCTION

Artificial intelligence aims to facilitate significant interactions between intelligent systems and humans. In this realm,
Question Answering (QA) models have emerged as a crucial
instrument for acquiring knowledge. They are designed
to provide precise answers to a wide range of queries,
thus assisting in the dissemination of information and the
enhancement of learning processes [1], [2], [3]. Their ability
to quickly provide accurate information makes these models
invaluable for enriching the quality and effectiveness of
interactive experiences, bridging the gap between complex
data and user understanding.
Question answering is not an easy task even in general
domain. For example, [4] introduces the BoolQ task, illustrated in Figure 1(a), where a user asks questions about a
document, and the QA model responds with either ‘yes’ or
‘no’. They discover that answering these natural questions is
surprisingly challenging because they often require a deep
understanding of the context, nuances, and specific details
within the document. QA tasks are particularly challenging
in scholarly domains, as scientific papers are often filled
•
•
•
•

Xiuying and Tairan contribute equally.
Xiuying Chen, Tairan Wang, Juexiao Zhou, Haoyang Li, Mingchen
Zhuge, Jürgen Schmidhuber, and Xin Gao, are with KAUST.
Taicheng Guo, Kehan Guo, and Xiangliang Zhang are with Notre Dame.
Xin Gao and Xiangliang Zhang are the corresponding authors.

with domain-specific terminology, making them difficult to
comprehend even for researchers [5], [6], [7]. A number of
domain-specific QA datasets are proposed in the biomedical
domain. For example, [8] proposes a multi-choice biomedical QA dataset collected from PubMed papers, and [9]
collects a multiple-choice dataset to classify which disease
the patient has. [10] proposes LiteratureQA, a QA corpus
consisting of papers in the computer science domain with
human-engineered questions.
However, one significantly overlooked area in research
is chemistry. Chemical QA can provide quick and accurate
access to vital chemical information, aiding in solving complex problems, understanding reactions, and developing
new materials, thereby supporting innovation and informed
decisions in chemistry-related fields. Despite its importance,
research in this field lags behind, likely due to the limited
availability of datasets and models. The most closely related
dataset to ours is KGQA [11], as shown in Figure 1(b),
which is based on a chemical knowledge graph and utilizes a template-based method to construct QA pairs. This
template-based method falls short in terms of diversity
when compared to the varied formats and changes in realworld language. Moreover, the questions it generates are
primarily focused on basic chemical concepts rather than
addressing more complex and practical research problems.
They rely heavily on a human-engineered knowledge graph.
In contrast to previous work, we turn to the large-scale

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

(a) BoolQ

(b) KGQA

Has the UK been hit by a
hurricane?
General
domain:
Question

Document: The Great Storm of
1987 was a violent extratropical
cyclone which caused casualties
in England, France and the
Channel Islands…

Template
-based:
Question

Question

Answer: Yes

General domain, not covering
chemical knowledge

2

(c) ScholarChemQA

Show molecular models of
aromatic hydriocarbons
Scholar
Question

Naphthalene

SPARQL query

Answer
extracted from
Knowledge graph

…The experiments are consistent with the
coexistence of two phases in our system: a
metallic phase and a weakly insulating Fermi
liquid phase having a percolation threshold
close to !! .

Entities

•
•

Specially designed question
Basic chemical concept

The metallic resistance of a
dilute two-dimensional hole
gas in a GaAs quantum
well: two-phase separation at
finite temperature?

•
•
•

Answer: Yes

Annotation

Real-world scholar problem
written by the
Content diversity
same author
Understanding depth

Fig. 1. Comparison of general domain QA dataset BoolQ, chemical domain dataset KGQA, and our ScholarChemQA dataset. Our dataset sources
from real-world research questions, in contrast to previous chemical datasets that were artificially constructed. Our dataset contains text rich in
domain-specific information, making it highly suitable for evaluation.

scholarly chemical papers that are readily available. Each
year, there are over 500,000 new publications in the field of
chemistry, as reported by the Web of Science1 , making it an
excellent resource to start with. The QA pairs in these papers
originate from real-world investigated problems rather than
being artificially created, thus holding more relevance and
applicability to practical scenarios in chemistry field. Concretely, in this paper, we propose ScholarChemQA, a chemical QA dataset for answering research questions with multichoice between yes, no, and maybe. Firstly, we collected over
a million titles and abstracts related to chemistry from academic platforms. Through a rigorous selection process, we
curated 40k QA pairs where each title, framed as a question,
can be answered using the aforementioned options. Out of
these, 1k pairs were hand-labeled for training, validation,
and testing, with yes/no/maybe constituting 65.8%, 21.2%,
and 13.0%, respectively. The ‘yes’ and ‘no’ labels indicate if
the abstract’s experiments support or refute the conclusion,
and the ‘maybe’ label serves as a nuanced indicator for
ambiguous or mixed evidence situations.Besides, to enrich
our dataset, we converted an additional 4k titles from
statement format into yes/no questions. An example case
from our dataset is shown in Fig.1(c). To correctly answer
the question, the model should have a foundational understanding of the behavior of a two-dimensional hole gas, the
principles of GaAs quantum wells, and the concept of phase
separation. Semantic reasoning skills are also indispensable
to interpret the ‘coexistence of two phases’ as the concurrent
existence of the mentioned metallic and insulating phases.
The benefits of our datasets are multi-faceted. Firstly, it is
the first chemical QA dataset for research purposes, encompassing a wide range of topics from basic concepts to
complex chemical processes. Secondly, it requires complex
reasoning and in-depth semantic analysis to deduce the
answer. Thirdly, ScholarChemQA sets a new benchmark for
AI in real-world, academic contexts, enhancing AI-driven
exploration and discovery in chemistry.
For experiments, we first evaluate the performance of
Large Language Models (LLMs) on ScholarChemQA. Re1. https://webofscience.com/

sults show that even the advanced GPT-3.5 model achieves
only 54% accuracy, highlighting the difficulties faced by
LLMs in understanding research papers filled with complex
terminology. Recognizing the need for improvement and
more accessible resources, we aim to use our collected
chemical QA dataset to develop a smaller, more precise
model. The first challenge here is that the dataset exhibits
an imbalanced attribute, where just 13% of cases belong to
the ‘maybe’ minority class. This is a commonly observed
characteristic in real-world datasets, as noted in previous
studies [12]. This imbalance becomes more pronounced
when including the automatically annotated yes/no set. The
second challenge involves the incorporation of a substantial
amount of unlabeled data. Hence, in this paper, we introduce QAMatch, a chemical question-answering model with
label rebalance, pseudo label calibration and dual augmentation
to address the above challenges. Generally, our QAMatch
follows the semi-supervised paradigm, generating pseudolabels for unlabeled data and training the model to predict
these labels using augmented data. We first address the
issue of imbalanced label distribution by re-weighting the
instance-wise loss based on the inverse frequency of each
class. The pseudo label calibration seeks to align pseudo-label
estimates with a desired ground truth distribution. To alter
unlabeled samples for creating diverse augmentations, we
propose a SoftMix operation that generates both questionand context-side augmentation, not in the input space, but in
their representation space. Our experimental results demonstrate that our proposed model significantly outperforms
models of a similar scale and LLM, marking a step forward
in domain-specific QA model development.
Our main contributions can be summarized as follows:
• We gathered a collection of up to 40k instances, from
which we annotated 1,050 answer labels for training, validation, and testing. Based on this we introduce ScholarChemQA, the first chemical QA dataset for answering
research questions.

• We assess recent LLMs including Llama2-70B, GPT-3.5,
and GPT-4 on ScholarChemQA, revealing their limitations
in comprehending chemical research papers and delivering

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

3

precise answers.
• We propose a novel, open-source, and computationally
efficient model QAMatch. This model utilizes QA-adapted
semi-supervised and class-rebalancing strategies for finetuning. QAMatch significantly outperforms the advanced
GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 model on the ScholarChemQA dataset,
proving its worth as a valuable tool for domain-specific QA
tasks.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: We summarize related work in §2. We then introduct our data collection
process in §3 and elaborate our approach in §4. §5 gives
the details of our experimental setup and main results.
§6 presents detailed analysis and discussion on proposed
components. Finally, §7 concludes the paper.

by datasets such as MedMCQA and MLEC [27], [28]. This
methodology is exemplified in datasets like HotpotQA [29],
Natural Questions [30], ShARC [31], and BioASQ [32]. [4]
and [8] demonstrated that multi-choice QA is unexpectedly
challenging to answer which often requires a deep understanding of the context, nuances, and specific details. Our
dataset also adheres to this multi-choice framework. When
answering questions, QA models combine the question and
context and generate a class output, similar to natural language inference (NLI) tasks. Recent advancements in pretrained language models, such as GPT-3.5, have demonstrated notable improvements in NLI tasks, indicating a
potential enhancement in the capability to tackle yes/no
question scenarios.

2

2.3

R ELATED W ORK

In this section, we summarize the related work on chemical
QA, multi-choice QA, imbalanced semi-supervised learning, and the chemical QA ability of LLM.
2.1

Chemical QA

The chemical question-answering (QA) task involves developing models to automatically answer questions related
to chemical concepts, properties, and reactions, leveraging
knowledge from chemistry literature and databases [7], [13].
The intricate nature of chemical concepts and the need
for specialized knowledge make the annotation process
challenging and time-consuming [14], [15], [16], [17], [18].
Consequently, the development of large-scale, accurately
annotated chemical QA datasets is hindered, impacting
the training and performance of QA models in the field.
[11] proposed a proof-of-concept chemistry QA dataset by
retrieving chemical data from knowledge graphs [19], [20].
However, the chemical QA ability is not restricted to concepts and entities. [21] developed a QA dataset sourced from
educational exercises in chemical textbooks. [22] introduced
a set of evaluation tasks including elementary mathematics,
US history, computer science, law, and more. The chemistryrelated tasks in it are also high-school or college exam
questions. In contrast, we curated a comprehensive QA
dataset derived from academic literature. This approach not
only introduces a diverse range of questions but also encompasses the latest research insights and in-depth studies.
Moreover, the contexts in our dataset are crafted by the same
authors who formulated the questions, ensuring a seamless
alignment between the contexts and the questions.

2.4
2.2

Multi-choice QA

In question answering research, a predominant approach
adopts the multi-choice format, where models are tasked
with selecting one of the provided options as the correct
answer [1], [23], [24], [25], [26]. This format simplifies the
evaluation of model performance, as it allows for straightforward comparison between the predicted answer and
the ground truth. It also aligns with standardized testing
formats commonly used in educational settings, making
it a familiar and practical choice for both researchers and
users. This approach has been widely applied in various
domains, including medical and legal contexts, as evidenced

Imbalanced Semi-supervised Learning

Imbalanced distribution is a common issue in real-world
datasets and everyday scenarios, where certain classes are
overrepresented compared to others [33], [34], [35]. This imbalance can lead to biased models and poor performance on
underrepresented classes. It is observed in various domains,
including social media, medical studies, and anomaly detection [36], [37], [38], [39], [40]. Imbalanced semi-supervised
learning is a machine learning approach that addresses the
challenge of training models on datasets with skewed class
distributions, using both labeled and unlabeled data to improve performance and generalization on underrepresented
classes. Our dataset follows this paradigm, featuring both
labeled and unlabeled training instances with unique distributions, leading to an imbalanced semi-supervised learning
setting [41], [42], [43]. In the supervised learning aspect,
[44], [45], [46], [47] presented re-weighting approaches that
leverage the effective number of samples for each category
to recalibrate the loss. On the other hand, in unsupervised
learning, methods like RemixMatch [48] modified the original image by rotating it at different angles and then tested
the model to predict the rotation degree as a classification
issue. [49] proposed to use a truncated Gaussian function
to allocate weights to unlabeled instances according to their
confidence levels and label ratios. Differing from these approaches, we tailor the semi-supervised learning challenge
for the QA context, taking into account the question and
context aspects. Moreover, we consider the imbalance issue
not only in the weighting process but also during pseudolabel construction process.
Chemical QA Ability of LLM

Large language models (LLMs) with strong abilities in
natural language processing tasks have been extensively
studied and applied across various areas. These areas include finance, software engineering, and medical diagnosis,
where LLMs have shown promising results in tasks such as
sentiment analysis, code generation, and disease identification [50], [51], [52]. In the chemical domain, studies [53], [54]
evaluated the capabilities of LLMs in fundamental chemistry tasks, such as property prediction, name prediction,
yield prediction, molecule captioning, and reagent selection.
Specifically, [55] highlighted several limitations of LLMs in
their understanding of molecular SMILES, including the

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

tendency for hallucination in chemistry-focused applications and shortcomings in current evaluation methodologies. However, the performance of LLMs in the scholarly
chemistry domain hasn’t been assessed yet. Assessing the
performance of LLMs in the scholarly chemistry domain is
important for several reasons. Firstly, it helps to evaluate the
readiness of LLMs for assisting chemists in their research
and accelerating discovery. Secondly, it provides insights
into the current capabilities and limitations of LLMs in
understanding complex chemical concepts and language.
Lastly, such assessments can guide the development of more
effective LLMs tailored to the specific needs of the chemistry
community.

3

S CHOLAR C HEM QA DATASET

In this section, we introduce our data collection process and
some key attributes of our collected data.
3.1

Data Collection

Data sources: To compile a comprehensive collection of
chemical papers, we utilized multiple academic publishing
sources including Elsevier and Springer. The overall process
is illustrated in Figure 2(a). Firstly, by employing a combination of publisher APIs for databases such as Scopus,
ScienceDirect, Springer Nature, Cross-Ref, and Lens [56],
we collected approximately 10 million abstracts and titles
centered on chemistry-related studies from 2000 to 2023.
Then, we specifically selected papers that have question
marks in their titles to build the QA dataset. This is because
we can automatically obtain natural scholarly questions,
and the corresponding answer is usually found within the
abstract or the main content of the paper. By focusing
on papers with question marks in their titles, we aim to
capture a diverse set of research questions that are directly
relevant to the field of chemistry. This approach allows
us to construct a dataset that is rich in domain-specific
questions and answers, providing a valuable resource for
training and evaluating question-answering models in the
scientific domain. In this work, we employ a multi-choice
setting, where the questions are answered with ‘yes’, ‘no’,
or ‘maybe’. This approach simplifies the response format
and allows for a more straightforward evaluation of the
question-answering model’s performance. By restricting the
answers to these three options, we can focus on the model’s
ability to understand and categorize the information presented in the text, making it easier to assess its accuracy and
reliability in a controlled setting.
Note that not all questions can be answered with a
yes/no/maybe response. To handle this, we followed a
rule-based approach, where we excluded questions that
start with interrogative words (e.g., wh-words) or involve
selecting from multiple entities. During our initial investigation, we found that approximately 10% of the abstracts
contained a conclusion subsection that could be considered
as the response to the associated question. To enhance the
challenge of reasoning, we excluded this section from our
context. Finally, we obtained 40k cases that cover various
topics and the distribution of papers from various sources is
shown in Figure 2(b).

4

TABLE 1
ScholarChemQA statistics.
Human
Annotated

Automatically
Annotated

Unlabeled

Size

1.05k

4k

40k

Prop. of yes (%)
Prop. of no (%)
Prop. of maybe (%)

65.8%
21.2%
13.0%

80.0%
20.0%
0%

-

Avg. question length
Avg. context length

13.87
176.01

14.14
175.15

14.20
178.41

Statistic

Expert Annotation and Quality Control: Since the original dataset lacked answer labels for the question titles, we
conducted an expert annotation process to collect a labeled
dataset. The annotation criterion was as follows: We choose
to annotate a question with ‘yes’ when the experiments
and results of the paper substantiate it. Conversely, we
use ‘no’ when they contradict or refute the statement. A
‘maybe’ is annotated in two scenarios: (1) when the paper
outlines conditions in which the answer could be both true
and false, or (2) when multiple interventions, observations,
etc., are inquired about, and the answer holds true for
some but not all of them. It is crucial to recognize that
these answers are not universal truths, but rather depend
on the specific context provided in the research paper. We
employed four PhD annotators, each with a background in
chemistry, to individually label 525 instances, yielding two
annotations for each case and a labeled dataset consisting of
1,050 instances. One annotator had access to the conclusion
part, reducing the need for extensive reasoning, while the
other annotator was not provided with the conclusion part,
requiring deeper reasoning from the available context. This
separation process ensured both annotation and dataset
quality. When there was disagreement in the labeling, a
third annotator facilitated discussions to achieve consensus
among the two initial annotators. The initial labeling yielded
a Kappa score of 0.62, indicating substantial agreement, and
the final discussion phase ensured an overall high quality of
the data.
Automatic Annotation: To further enrich our dataset,
we used a simple heuristic to collect noisily-labeled instances. We began by selecting papers with statement titles
that followed specific Part-Of-Speech (POS) tagging structures (NP-(VBP/VBZ)) based on the Stanford POS tagging
scheme [57]. We then transformed the statement titles into
questions by employing a simple method, which involved
inserting copulas like ‘is’ or auxiliary verbs such as ‘does’
at the beginning of the sentence. We also ensured that
the transformed sentences were coherent, making necessary adjustments like adding question marks. The yes/no
answer was then determined based on whether the verb
(VB) in the sentence was negated. For example, the title
‘Current fossil fuel infrastructure does not yet commit us
to 1.5°C warming’ is changed to ‘Does the current fossil fuel
infrastructure commit us to 1.5°C warming?’ with answer
‘No’. In cases where the complex titles involve commas or
colons, we relied on GPT-4 to automatically convert them
into appropriate question formats. In a random sampling of
200 rewritten questions evaluated by GPT-4 for fluency, all

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

(a)

5

(b)

Keywords: Catalyst…

(c)

Subject: Chemistry

Journal: JACS…

…

19%

16%

54% 11%

ScholarChemQA

Question type

Reasoning type

Fig. 2. (a) Illustration of data crawling process. (b) Topic distribution of ScholarChemQA. (c) Proportional relationships between corresponding
question types and reasoning types. Different question types correspond to different reasoning types, showcasing the diversity of our dataset.
71.5% of the questions require chemical knowledge for answering, showing the difficulty of our chemical question-answering tasks.
TABLE 2
Summary of ScholarChemQA question types. Highlighted texts are matched key phrases between types and examples.
Question Type

%

Example Questions

Chemical Interaction

21.5

Is the polarization of the C=C bond imperative for bifunctional outer-sphere
C=C hydrogenation?
Do final-state interactions obscure short-range correlation effects in quasielastic
A(e, e′ p) scattering?

Chemical Theory

35.0

Does the Oxidation of Zirconium obey Wagner’s Theory?
Deciphering mechanism of aggregation-induced emission
E–Zisomerisation involved in an AIE process?

Is

Chemical Attribute

43.5

Catalytic amyloids: Is misfolding folding?
Is the solubility product constant? Introductory experiment in solubility equilibrium

Reasoning Type

%

Example Question & Context Snippet

Semantic Reasoning

28.5

Question: Can the supersymmetric ω parameter be generated dynamically
without a light singlet?
Context: It is generally assumed that the dynamical generation of the Higgs
mass parameter of the superpotential, ω , implies the existence of a light singlet
at or below the supersymmetry breaking scale, MSU SY . We present a counterexample in which the sunglet field can receive an arbitrarily heavy mass (e.g.,
of the order of the Planck scale, MP ≈ 1019 GeV). In this example, a non-zero
value of µ is generated through soft supersymmetry breaking parameters and is
thus naturally of the order of MSU SY .

Knowledge Reasoning

71.5

Question: The metallic resistance of a dilute two-dimensional hole gas in a GaAs
quantum well: two-phase separation at finite temperature?
Context: We have studied the magnetotransport properties of a high mobility
two-dimensional hole gas (2DHG) system in a 10nm GaAs quantum well with
densities in range of 0.7 − 1.6 ∗ 101 0cm−2 on the metallic side of the zero-field
‘metal-insulator transition’. In a parallel field well above Bc that suppresses the
metallic conductivity, the 2DHG exhibits a conductivity g(T ) ≈ 0.3(e2 /h) ln T
reminiscent of weak localization. The experiments are consistent with the coexistence of two phases in our system: a metallic phase and a weakly insulating
Fermi liquid phase having a percolation threshold close to Bc .

questions were classified as coherent and fluent.

3.2

(AIE):

Characteristics

In the collected papers obtained from Lens, the metainformation associated with them provides subject information. Figure 2(b) presents the topic distribution of these
papers. They cover a wide range of topics, including biochemistry, theoretical chemistry, catalysis, environmental
chemistry, and material chemistry.

To delve further into the QA attributes, we performed
a human analysis on a random sample of 200 examples,
where we categorized the questions into three main aspects
and classified the difficulty into background knowledgerequired and knowledge-free categories. The three main aspects are: chemical interaction (questions about how chemicals interact or react), chemical theory (questions related to
fundamental chemistry theories or principles), and chemical
attributes (questions focusing on inherent properties of specific chemicals), with the majority falling under the category

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

6

of chemical attributes. Examples of these are provided in
Table 2. Regarding the type of reasoning required, around
71.5% of the questions require chemical knowledge for answering. The remaining questions can be addressed through
semantic reasoning. For instance, the context ”the metal
center is really capable of back-donation to the carbene” provides the answer to the question ”Back-Donation in HighValent d0 Metal Complexes: Does It Exist?” Examples can
be found in Table 2. To better illustrate the correspondence
between different reasoning types and question types, we
present a Sankey diagram depicted in Figure 2(c). It can be
seen that different question types correspond to different
reasoning types, showcasing the diversity of our dataset.

4

QAM ATCH

4.2

From Table 1, it is evident that in the human-annotated
dataset, the ‘yes’ class constitutes 65.8%, while the least
represented class accounts for only 13%. Moreover, if we
combine the automatically annotated dataset into training,
the imbalance problem becomes even more severe, since the
automatic datasets are constructed based only on ‘yes’ and
‘no’ classes. Therefore, addressing the generalization issue
for the less frequent classes is crucial.
Inspired by [44], we integrate the principle of label rebalance into the traditional cross-entropy loss. Intuitively, we
increase the loss weight of the less frequent class. This adaptation is advantageous for minority classes, pushing them
to have broader margins and achieving higher accuracy.
Let’s consider a sample labeled yis which represents a class
with ny training instances. The modified label-rebalanced
softmax cross-entropy loss is defined as:

In this section, we first define the task of chemical QA, then
describe our QAMatch model in detail.

4.1

Problem Formulation

The task of building QAMatch can be formulated as a C class classification problem in a semi-supervised learning
setting. There are labeled instances, denoted as {qs , cs , ys },
and unlabeled instances, denoted as {qu , cu }, where
q∗ , c∗ ∈ Rd are the d-dimensional question and context
representation, and ys is the one-hot ground-truth label.
To answer a within-context question x={q, c}, QAMatch
makes prediction y′ as p(y′ |x) ∈ RC . The overview for
building QAMatch is illustrated in Figure 3. The loss function to minimize is L = Ls + Lu . Here Ls is the supervised
cross-entropy loss (H):

Ls = H (ys , y′ ) .

(1)

The unsupervised consistency loss Lu is defined by adopting a
pseudo-labeling approach with consistency restriction:

Lu = H (p̂, ŷ) ,

(2)

where p̂ is the pseudo-label generated for unlabeled input
(see Eq. (5)). ŷ is obtained by p (y|Ω (xu )), where Ω (xu )
represents the prediction based on augmented variations of
the question and the context (see section 4.4). The general
objective is to ensure that the predicted label of the corresponding augmented case aligns with the pseudo-labels. In
this way, the vast amount of unlabeled cases is leveraged as
well to optimize the prediction of y.
The minimization of both supervised loss (Ls ) and unsupervised loss (Lu ) is hindered by the imbalanced distribution of classes in y. Specifically, the ‘maybe’ class is
significantly underrepresented compared to the ‘yes’ and
‘no’ classes. This imbalance is further aggravated when
combined with an automatically annotated dataset that only
includes ‘yes’ or ‘no’ labels. To address these challenges, we
implement a strategy of ‘label rebalance’ during the supervised training phase and ‘pseudo-label calibration’ during
the semi-supervised learning process, which are explained
in detail below.

Label Rebalance

Lbs =

1−β
H (yis , yi′ ) .
1 − β ny

(3)

Here, a β value of 0 indicates that there’s no re-weighting
applied. As β approaches 1, it signifies re-weighting based
on the inverse of the class frequency. The employment of
hyperparameter β , along with the effective number of samples ny , enables a smooth transition of the class-balanced
factor from no re-weighting to re-weighting by inverse class
frequency.
4.3

Pseudo-label Calibration

Pseudo-labels are often generated by trained models for
unlabeled data [49], [58]. By incorporating pseudo-labeled
data, the model can leverage a wealth of unlabeled data,
enhancing its generalization capabilities and improving prediction accuracy. To ensure the high quality of pseudolabels, we calibrate their distribution so that it aligns with
the distribution of the actual ground truth labels.
The first operation is multiplication of the predicted and
ground truth distributions: This step enhances the parts of
the predicted distribution that match the ground truth distribution. If a certain class has a high probability in both
the predicted and ground truth distributions, its probability
will further increase after multiplication. Conversely, if a
class has a high probability in the predicted distribution
but a low probability in the ground truth distribution, its
probability will decrease after multiplication. Let ṗ ∈ RC be
the prediction of the pseudo-label of one unlabeled instance.
We first multiply it with ȳ ∈ RC , which is the distribution
of ground truth labels from annotated data ys .
Then, division by the past average distribution: This step
aims to reduce the bias in the predicted distribution caused
by the accumulation of historical data. If a certain class
has appeared frequently in the past average distribution,
its probability will be correspondingly reduced in the new
prediction to avoid the excessive influence of past data on
the current prediction. To calibrate each ṗ, we estimate its
distribution in one batch p(y) ∈ RC , e.g., by taking the
average of the model’s predictions on unlabeled examples
over the last 128 batches.
The above process can be summarized as: To adjust the
predicted pseudo-labels to better reflect the true likelihood

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015
Labeled Samples:

7

Q C

(1 − *)/(1 − *!! )
Label Rebalance

Supervised Loss
Pseudo label

"/ ̅
!
%(")
Pseudo-label Calibration

Unlabeled Samples:

Q C

Q C

Backbone

w/o

Question-augmented

Q C

SoftMix

Context-augmented

Sof
tM
ix

w/ SoftMix
w/

ix
tM
Sof

Consistency
Unsupervised
Loss
Consistency
Loss

Fig. 3. QAMatch is trained using both labeled and unlabeled data. In the supervised training phase, label rebalancing is applied to adjust the loss
regarding class infrequency. In the unsupervised phase, pseudo-labels are generated through pseudo-label calibration. The learning from unlabeled
data is through the enforcement of consistency between the pseudo-labels and the predictions of instances augmented using SoftMix.

of each class, we apply the following pseudo-label calibration
operation with pointwise multiplication and division:

p̃ = Normalize(ṗ × ȳ/p(y)),
(4)
P
where Normalize(a) = a/ j aj . Together, these two steps
ensure that the pseudo-labels are both accurate (by aligning
with the ground truth distribution) and consistent (by forming a valid probability distribution), thereby improving the
model’s ability to learn from unlabeled data.
Additionally, since ground truth labels typically adopt
hard (1-hot) encoding, we further modify the calibrated
pseudo-labels by applying a sharpening function:
1
1
P
T
p̂i = p̃iT / C
(5)
j=1 p̃j ,
where T is a hyperparameter. As T approaches 0, the output
will approach a one-hot distribution. A reduction in T steers
the model towards generating predictions with diminished
entropy. Finally, we use p̂ as the pseudo label in Eq.(2) and
proceed as usual with other processing.
4.4

SoftMix Augmentation

To utilize the abundance of available unlabeled data and
enhance the learning process, the concept of data augmentation has been extensively adopted in semi-supervised
learning [48]. The key idea is to create data variants, make
predictions, and compare them with pseudo labels to guide
model training. As introduced in the semi-supervised learning framework in Section 4.1, augmenting unlabeled cases
is necessary to formulate a consistency loss. Most of the
existing augmentation methods are in input space. For example, augmentation on images includes rotation, cropping,
and flipping, and text-domain augmentations include back
translation [49] and synonym substitution [59]. However,
studies [60], [61] suggest that interpolations in hidden layers
can capture more advanced information, enhancing semantic diversity and providing additional training signals. For
example, enhancing diversity in latent spaces can improve
the robustness of text generation models [62]. Inspired
by these insights, we introduce the SoftMix augmentation
operation, designed to increase diversity and strengthen
robustness by latent space augmentations.
As our QA paradigm consists of the question and the
input document, we naturally have two kinds of augmentation results by using back-translation to translate

these two parts respectively. We refer to the input with a
back-translated question as ‘question-augmented’, and the
same goes for ‘context-augmented’. Let xa be the questionaugmented input representation, and xb be the answeraugmented representation. Among xa , xb and the original
input xu , one can be randomly selected to act as a source of
perturbation to modify the other inputs. For instance, if xa
is selected for perturbation, both xu and xb are modified as:

x′∗ = λx∗ + (1 − λ) xa ,
λ ∼ Beta(α, α),

(6)
(7)

where x′∗ represents the new training input derived from x∗
(xu and xb in this example case), and α is a hyperparameter
for Beta distribution. The representations of two augmented
cases are separately mixed with their own original representation to produce new training inputs with the same training
target, i.e., the pseudo label. The whole process is illustrated
in Figure 3.
Note that our SoftMix operation is distinctly different
from the previous RemixMatch operation in [48]. In their
method, they perform a weighted sum of multiple input
hidden states and output states to form new training samples. In contrast, in our work, we establish a mixture operation only in the input space with representations that have
similar semantic meanings, keeping the target the same.
This maintains a balance between diversity in the latent
space and the fundamental generative capability without
interference. In the experiments section 5, we will show that
our method significantly outperforms RemixMatch.
The newly generated training inputs share the same
prediction objective, i.e., the pseudo label. Therefore, their
predictions are compared against the pseudo label of xu ,
leading to the calculation of the consistency loss in Eq.
(2). Formally, given our augmented and mixed batches, the
standard consistency loss in Equation 2 is changed to:
P
Lm = ∗∈{a,b,u} H (p̂, Ω(x′∗ )) .
(8)
We additionally utilize xa , comprising a sole augmented
rendition of the question and its predicted labels, excluding
the application of SoftMix. This not only offers a subtle
enhancement in performance but also contributes to heightened stability:

Lc = H (p̂, Ω(xa )) .

(9)

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

The QAMatch model is together optimized by Lbs +
Lm + Lc .

5

E XPERIMENT

5.1

Implementation Details

We implement our models in PyTorch on NVIDIA
A100 GPUs. For selecting the backbone pretrained
language models, we experimented with various
models
including
‘recobo/chemical-bert-uncased’,
‘allenai/scibert scivocab uncased’,
and
‘bert-baseuncased’. We observed that the first two models did
not yield performance improvements, likely due to
insufficient training in scholarly chemical papers. Therefore,
for broader applicability, we choose ‘bert-base-uncased’ [63]
with a maximum token length of 512. We choose BERT
since it has better performance on classification tasks
and is parameter-efficient. The yes/no/maybe labels are
predicted by averaging the outputs and then applying
a softmax function. The annotated dataset is divided
into 500 for training, 50 for validation, and 500 for
testing. The test set remains fixed, while the remainder is
randomly sampled five times. We then take the average
of these performances as the final result. We performed
cross-validation five times to ensure the reliability of the
performance. For the back-translation augmentation, we
use facebook/nllb-200-3.3B translation systems with
the auxiliary German language. We find in the preliminary
study on the validation set that most hyperparameters can
be fixed and do not need to be tuned. For all experiments,
we set T = 0.5, α = 0.75, and β =0.9999. The statistics of the
collected dataset are listed in Table 1. The LLM API we use
includes gpt-3.5-turbo and gpt-4-1106-preview.
5.2

Baselines

We first compare QAMatch with a basic Supervised baseline model, which is trained by using only the humanannotated dataset. In addition, we compare QAMatch with a
biomedical baseline BioBERT [8] that leverages labeled data
to produce static pseudo-labels for the unlabeled samples,
which are subsequently utilized to train the classification
model. BioBERT is a multi-phase finetuning process, while
our model follows end-to-end fashion with our unique
softmix and rebalance operations.
We also compare with strong semi-supervised baselines:
FixMatch [64] is a classic semi-supervised baseline that uses
pseudo-labeling on a weakly augmented version of the data
and then enforces consistency between these pseudo-labels
and the predictions on a strongly-augmented version of the
same data. The pseudo-label is only retained if the model
produces a high-confidence prediction.
FreeMatch [58] adjusts the confidence threshold of pseudo
labels in a self-adaptive manner according to the model’s
learning status.
SoftMatch [49] derives a truncated Gaussian function to
weight pseudo samples based on their confidence, which
can be viewed as a soft version of the confidence threshold.
Our model differs from the above approaches by leveraging all pseudo labels and aim to enhance their accuracy.

8

RemixMatch [48] introduces a remix operation in latent
space that combines multiple cases to create new learning inputs and targets. This approach fundamentally differs from our SoftMix operation, which mixes information
within a single case while maintaining the same target.
We also include open-source LLM baselines, such as
Llama2-70B [65], GPT-3.5, and GPT-4.
5.3

Datasets

Our QAMatch model, though originally designed to address
the imbalance phenomenon prevalent in scholarly papers,
is applicable to a variety of other contexts where similar imbalances occur. Several imbalanced text classification
benchmark datasets have been developed reflecting these
scenarios. To evaluate our model’s effectiveness beyond the
specialized chemical question answering dataset we compiled, we tested it on established benchmark classification
datasets proposed by [66]. The AG News dataset, extracted
from AG’s corpus of news articles on the web, utilizes the
four largest classes from this corpus. The Yahoo Answers
dataset is a topic classification dataset created using the ten
largest main categories through Yahoo! Webscope program.
This dataset includes the question title, question content,
and the best answer. The Yelp-5 dataset originates from
the Yelp Dataset Challenge in 2015. We adopt the task
which predicts the full number of stars given by the user.
Lastly, the Amazon-5 dataset, sourced from the Stanford
Network Analysis Project, comprises Amazon reviews. The
data used for classification includes both the review title and
its content.
5.4

Evaluation Metrics

Each experiment is repeated five times with different data
splits, and we report the average test accuracy and weighted
F1 scores. Accuracy reflects the proportion of accurate predictions among all instances, yet it overlooks the precision of
individual classes. On the contrary, weighted-F1 computes
metrics for each label and determines their average, considering the number of true instances for each label in the
weighting process.
5.5

Experimental Results

Comparing with Similar-Scale Models. In Table 3, we
present the performance metrics of recent baselines and our
model across diverse dataset settings. The imbalance ratio
γ represents how many times larger the size of the biggest
class is compared to the smallest one, and γ ranges from 5
(Setting 1) to 48 (Setting 4). A few observations can be made
from the table.
Firstly, semi-supervised baselines surpass the naive supervised baselines in most scenarios, which shows the necessity
of learning from unlabeled cases. Secondly, it is valuable
to have a larger pool of unsupervised data and supervised
data. For instance, comparing Setting 2 and Setting 3, even
though the supervised count remains the same, there is
an improvement or consistent performance when more
unsupervised data is added. Thirdly, the QAMatch model
consistently outperforms other models across all configurations. While Accuracy provides a measure of overall performance, the F1 score additionally captures the equilibrium of

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

9

TABLE 3
Performance of different models on datasets of various labeled imbalance ratio γ . The numbers in the bracket are the number of supervised and
unsupervised cases in training set, respectively. Numbers in bold denote significant improvements over the FreeMatch baseline, as determined by
a two-tailed paired t-test with a p-value <0.05. This notation is consistently used throughout the tables.

Model
Supervised
BioBERT
FixMatch
SoftMatch
FreeMatch
QAMatch

Setting 1 (500/40k, γ = 5)

Setting 2 (2k/20k, γ = 23)

Setting 3 (2k/40k, γ = 23)

Setting 4 (4k/40k, γ = 48)

Accuracy

F1

Accuracy

F1

Accuracy

F1

Accuracy

F1

66.84
67.56
67.64
70.16
69.56
71.36

66.71
67.30
64.74
67.38
66.42
68.55

69.80
71.20
71.40
71.53
72.14
73.12

68.57
69.37
69.46
69.71
70.23
70.84

69.80
72.12
72.34
72.24
72.60
73.84

68.57
69.45
69.14
69.75
69.72
70.93

70.62
72.30
72.98
73.54
72.68
74.28

68.59
67.72
68.96
68.99
68.13
71.06

TABLE 4
Accuracy (%) performance of baselines and our QAMatch on four classification benchmark datasets. with γ = 5 for labeled data and γ = 150 for
unlabeled data. The # Labels indicate the count of the most populous category. Numbers in bold denote significant improvements over the
FreeMatch baseline, as determined by a two-tailed paired t-test with a p-value <0.05.
Model

AG News

Amazon

Yelp

# Labels

40

200

250

1000

500

2000

250

1000

BioBERT
FixMatch
SoftMatch
FreeMatch
QAMatch

82.63
82.68
83.51
84.34
85.51

84.97
86.20
85.91
86.53
87.38

50.37
50.59
50.39
51.32
52.10

53.32
54.68
54.54
54.32
55.49

66.63
67.37
66.59
66.03
68.52

67.20
67.37
68.33
68.28
68.20

54.70
54.07
54.62
53.46
55.68

57.78
57.33
56.40
55.81
57.54

accuracy across various classes. Our model excels in both
these metrics, thus highlighting its resilience across diverse
data distributions and emphasizing its effective utilization
of both supervised and unsupervised data.
5.6

Yahoo

Comparison with Large Language Models

We compared our model with Llama2-70B, GPT-3.5, GPT4 across 200 sampled cases, where the chain-of-thought
prompt is as follows:
Let’s think step by step and answer this question based
on the context with yes/no/maybe. Annotate a question
using ‘yes’ if the experiments and results in the paper
indicate it, so the answer is not universal but contextdependent. ‘maybe’ is annotated when (1) the paper
discusses conditions where the answer is True and
conditions where the answer is False or (2) more than
one intervention/observation/etc.
The accuracy and F1 results are shown in Figure 5. Our
model surpasses the three baseline models probably because
it is trained explicitly on the chemical corpus, hence, it’s
enriched with corresponding knowledge. The advantages
of our model become more evident when considering the
large size and great computational source of LLMs.
Prompt Discussion. We employed various strategies
when testing LLMs, including chain-of-thoughts and fewshot learning, in designing the prompts. However, we observed that neither strategy substantially enhanced performance. For few-shot learning, the limited improvement may
be attributed to the dissimilarity in content among the test
questions, indicating a necessity for more targeted selection
of in-context learning cases. We assume the reason is that the
limitations of LLMs in chemical QA task are more related
to a deficit in domain-specific scientific knowledge rather

than the thinking strategy. This insight directs us towards
strengthening LLMs’ domain-specific scientific knowledge
in chemical QA tasks.
Case Study. We also give two error analyses on the
output of LLMs in Figure 4. Generally, we observed that
both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 often provide ambiguous ‘maybe’
answers, even when the input clearly warrants a definitive ‘yes’ or ‘no’ response, For instance, in the first case,
the conclusion is initially presented in the input as ‘the
proton can be encapsulated’. The subsequent details then
delve into the specific conditions under which the proton
can or cannot be encapsulated, creating confusion for the
LLMs, as evidenced by the outlined reasons. Similarly, in
the second scenario, GPT-4’s reasoning process concludes
that the coexistence of two phases is feasible, while the
given answer is still ‘maybe’. These examples highlight the
inconsistency between the LLM’s reasoning process and its
final conclusions, which points to further improvement.
Performance on Benchmark Datasets. The scenario of imbalanced semi-supervised learning is commonly observed
in real-world settings [67], [68], [69], [70]. To verify the generalizability of our model, we further evaluated our model
on four benchmark datasets. To simulate an imbalanced
setting, we set the imbalance ratio γ of 5 for labeled data
and 150 for unlabeled data, a common setting in image
classification [49]. For example, for AG News dataset in
setting 1, the case numbers across four categories are [40,
23, 13, 8]. In setting 2, the number distribution is [200, 116,
68, 40]. The results are shown in Table 4, where our model
outperforms most of the other baselines across different
settings. For instance, our model achieves 87.38% accuracy with 200 labeled instances, outperforming FreeMatch’s
86.53%. These results demonstrate the generalization and
robustness of our QAMatch model in handling imbalances

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

10

Question:
Can a proton be encapsulated in tetraamido/diamino quaternized macrocycles in aqueous solution and electric field?
Context:
The proton-binding behavior of solvated tetraamido/diamino quaternized macrocyclic compounds with rigid phenyl
and flexible phenyl bridges in the absence or presence of an external electric field is investigated by molecular
dynamics simulation. The proton can be held through H-bonding interactions with the two carbonyl oxygen atoms
in macrocycles containing rigid (phenyl) and flexible (propyl) bridges. The solute-solvent H-bonding interactions
cause the macrocyclic backbones to twist to different extents, depending on the different bridges. The macrocycle
with the rigid phenyl linkages folds into a cuplike shape due to π − π interaction, while the propyl analogue still
maintains the ellipsoidal ringlike shape with just a slight distortion. The potential energy required for proton transfer
is larger in the phenyl-containing macrocycle than in the compound with propyl units. When an external electric
field with a strength of 2.5 V nm−1 is exerted along the carbonyl oxygen atoms, a difference in proton encircling
is exhibited for macrocycles with rigid and flexible bridges. In contrast to encapsulation of a proton in the propyl
analogue, the intermolecular solute-solvent H-bonding and intramolecular π − π stacking between the two rigid
phenyl spacers leads to loss of the proton from the highly distorted cuplike macrocycle with phenyl bridges. The
competition between intra- and intermolecular interactions governs the behavior of proton encircling in macrocycles.
Reference Answer: Yes
QAMatch Answer: Yes
GPT-3.5 Answer: Maybe
GPT-3.5 reasoning: While H-bonding interactions are shown to hold the proton within the macrocycles, the impact
of an electric field on this binding is variable depending on the bridge type. In the case of the macrocycle with a rigid
phenyl bridge, the presence of the electric field and the resulting intramolecular π − π interactions lead to the loss of
the proton from the macrocycle.
Fig. 4. Error analysis. Supporting fact for the answer is highlighted.
TABLE 5
Ablation study of QAMatch. Numbers in bold denote significant improvements over the w/o Label Rebalance, as determined by a two-tailed paired
t-test with a p-value <0.05.
Setting 1

Model
QAMatch
w/o Label Rebalance
w/o Pseudo-label Calibration
w/o SoftMix
w/ RemixMatch

Setting 3

Setting 4

F1

Accuracy

F1

Accuracy

F1

Accuracy

F1

71.36
70.76
70.43
70.55
64.86

68.55
67.79
66.84
67.10
64.34

73.12
72.75
72.18
72.17
66.61

70.84
70.13
69.02
69.25
65.87

73.84
73.56
72.78
72.94
66.85

70.93
70.28
68.90
69.19
66.86

74.28
73.96
73.27
73.36
67.79

71.06
70.32
69.02
69.29
66.30

Accuracy
F1

Score

80
75
70
65
60
55
50
45
40

Setting 2

Accuracy

Llama2GPT-3.5 GPT-4QAMatch

Fig. 5. The accuracy (%) and F1 scores (%) of our model and LLMs on
the ScholarChemQA dataset.

in different domains and settings.

6

ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION

6.1

Ablation Study

In Table 5, we assess the contributions of QAMatch’s main
components in four Settings. Take setting 4 as an example,
the full QAMatch model, with an accuracy of 74.28% and F1

score of 71.06%, outperforms its variants. Excluding label
rebalancing results in reduced performance, with accuracy
and F1 scores dropping to 73.96% and 70.32% respectively.
The performance drops even further when pseudo-label
calibration is removed. These findings underscore the importance of class balancing. Finally, the lack of the SoftMix
component (when Lm is absent and only Lc is utilized)
hurts performance in both metrics, underscoring the benefits of augmenting diversity. The comparative performance
is consistent throughout different datasets, which demonstrates the robust effectiveness of our proposed modules.
Effectiveness of Label Rebalance. We next analyze the
three components in detail, starting with a simple numerical
study. The first component is label rebalancing. We examine
the influence of the size of β on the class-based weight, as
shown in Equation 3. When β = 0, it corresponds to no
re-weighting, and as β approaches 1, it corresponds to reweighting by inverse class frequency. The proposed novel
concept of the effective number of samples enables us to use
the hyperparameter β to smoothly adjust the class-balanced
term between no re-weighting and re-weighting by inverse
class frequency. In Figure 6(b), we demonstrate that the

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015
(a)

(b)

11

TABLE 6
The performance of baselines and our model on the minority class, i.e.,
the maybe class.

Model
Supervised
BioBERT
FixMatch
SoftMatch
FreeMatch
QAMatch

Fig. 6. (a) Visualization of the proposed class-balanced term (1 −
β)/(1 − β ny ), where ny is the number of samples in the groundtruth class. (b) Accuracy rate when trained with and without the classbalanced term. The larger the β is, the larger the improvement is.

class-balanced term always improves the performance of the
original loss, and larger values of β yield more significant
performance gains.
Effectiveness of Pseudo-label calibration. In Section 4.3,
we introduce two steps to align the prediction distribution
for unlabeled cases with the ground truth distribution.
Herein, we present the histogram distribution of the ground
truth labels, the predictions from the baseline FixMatch,
and our model QAMatch in Figure 8. It can be observed
that FixMatch has significantly fewer predictions for the
minority class, while our QAMatch produces a prediction
distribution similar to the ground truth.
We also calculate the KL divergence [71] between predictions and ground truth labels. The KL loss between
FixMatch and the labels is 0.0467, while it is 0.0028 for QAMatch. This indicates that the distribution of Pred2 is closer
to the target distribution compared to Pred1, as reflected by
the lower KL divergence value. This demonstrates that our
techniques for pseudo-label calibration are effective, and the
predicted labels are of good quality, closely resembling the
ground truth labels. This provides a favorable condition for
semi-supervised learning.
Effectiveness of SoftMix operation. Apart from the
numerical study, we conduct visualizations to provide a
more intuitive understanding of the proposed structure.
Firstly, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the SoftMix
operation through t-SNE projection. As shown in Fig. 7,
we project the original labeled text, the augmented text
using back-translation, and the hidden vector obtained by
the SoftMix operation, respectively. It can be seen that the
augmented text is close to the original text, which means
that the back-translation operation brings limited diversity
to the training corpus. Then, for the gray nodes projected by
the hidden cases generated by the SoftMix operation, they
are farther away from both the original document and the
augmentation in the input space, and are more dispersed in
the latent space. This indicates that the SoftMix operation
can generate more diverse and informative representations
compared with the input space augmentation, potentially
leading to improved model performance.
Comparison with RemixMatch baseline. We also
tried an alternative remix operation proposed by
[48]. It introduces a remix operation in latent space
that combines multiple cases to create new learning
inputs and targets. This approach fundamentally differs
from our SoftMix operation, which mixes information
within a single case while maintaining the same

Minority-Class
Accuracy
38.46
39.72
37.82
40.15
38.92
41.54

target. As shown in Table 5, with the remixmatch
component the model performs poorly on textual tasks.
This observation aligns with the previous findings at
https://github.com/microsoft/Semi-supervised-learning/
blob/main/results/usb nlp.csv. A plausible explanation is
that, in the text domain, the semantic vector representations
cannot be mixed similarly to the computer vision domain,
which can cause confusion in the training process and
interfere with performance.
6.2

Minority Class Performance

In the previous section we discuss the balanced performance
of QAMatch across various settings, where our model exhibits superior performance in the class-aware F1 metric.
In Table 6, we present the accuracy of the minority class,
specifically the ‘maybe’ class, where our model demonstrates superior performance, outperforming the secondbest model by a margin of 1.39. We also have a visualization
study by comparing the confusion matrices of the Supervised and QAMatch predictions on the test set, as shown
in Figure 9. In the confusion matrices, the value at the
intersection of the i-th row and the j -th column represents
the number of cases from the i-th class predicted as the
j -th class. By normalizing based on the true predictions
in the columns, darker cells indicate higher ratios. It can
be seen that the Supervised model performs poorly in the
‘maybe’ class, due to the fact that the Supervised doesn’t
adjust for class imbalance. In contrast, our QAMatch yields
a more balanced class distribution with significantly fewer
misclassifications in the ‘maybe’ category. This suggests that
the model’s ability to adjust for class imbalance contributes
to its improved performance.
6.3

Unlabeled Data Utilization

In Figure 10, we present the accuracy curve for pseudolabels throughout the training process. The curve highlights
the performance dynamics of various models. Notably, the
FixMatch baseline demonstrates noticeable fluctuations, underperforming FreeMatch. Our proposed model demonstrates a noteworthy performance trajectory. In the initial
phase, specifically during the first 6,000 iterations, it closely
aligns with the FreeMatch model, exhibiting comparable
levels of accuracy. However, as the training progresses beyond this early stage, a significant shift is observed. Our
model starts to outperform both FreeMatch and FixMatch
markedly, indicating its superior learning capability and
effectiveness in adapting as the training advances. This

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

12

Fig. 7. In the t-SNE projection of the original labeled text, the augmented text using back-translation, and the hidden vector obtained by the SoftMix
operation, the gray nodes generated by SoftMix are farther away from the original nodes. This indicates that the SoftMix operation can generate
more diverse and informative representations compared to input space augmentation.

Labels
FixMatch
QAMatch

0.7

0.74
0.73

0.5

Accuracy

Probability

0.6

0.4
0.3

0.72
0.71
0.70

FreeMatch
FixMatch
QAMatch

0.2
0.69

0.1
0.0

0.68

No

Yes

Maybe

Fig. 8. Distribution of ground truth labels, predictions from FixMatch
and our QAMatch. FixMatch has significantly fewer predictions for the
minority class, while our QAMatch produces a prediction distribution
similar to the ground truth.

0

2000

4000

6000

8000

Iteration

10000

12000

14000

Fig. 10. The accuracy curve of the pseudo-labels in the training process.

calibration operations to address the imbalance issue. Experimental results show that QAMatch surpasses recent classification baselines and LLMs. Our dataset holds the potential
for additional scientific
investigation. For instance, it can be
Re
Minority-Class
Model
used for testing Accuracy
domain-specific language models
on
their
Berthelot, D.; Carlini, N.;
understanding
of complex
chemical concepts. It
alsoH.; and Raffe
K.;can
Zhang,
Supervised
38.46
BioBERT
supervised
examine
chemical 39.72
research information retrieval
systems,learning with
FixMatch in matching
37.82 questions with corresponding
mentation
anchoring. Pro
particularly
docSoftMatch
40.15
Jefferson, O. A.; Jaffe, A
uments.
FreeMatch
38.92
hofer,
D.; Dulleck, U.; Ba
Ethic
discussion.
Our dataset is drawn from
various
ChemMatch
41.54
Ward,
K.; et al. 2018. Ma
academic platforms, each having distinct data protection
lished
policies. A significant portion of our dataset is sourcedresearch
from on industr
nology.
Model
Accuracy
the lens.org [56] website, a
platform F1
that actively promotes
Fig. 9. The confusion matrix for predictions made by the Supervised
the distribution and sharing
of data.
As per the guidelines
ChemMatch
74.28
71.22
model and our model, where darker diagonal colors represent higher
w/o Label detailed
Rebalance at
73.96
70.22
https://about.lens.org/policies/#attribution,
we
accuracy for each class.
w/o Pseudo-label
Rebalance
73.20 with
68.82the Lens ID. The exare allowed
to release the dataset
w/o SoftMix
73.36
68.57
tensive
scale of
holds significant
potential and is
w/ RemixMatch
(Berthelot
et 26,000
al. 2020)cases67.79
66.30
improved performance is sustained and even becomes more expected to provide considerable benefits to the community.
pronounced as the training process continues, indicating a As for data sourced from other sites like Elsevier, which
Table 1: Ablation study on three main components in Chemrobust and effective learning capability. This trendMatch.
is also maintain strict data usage policies at https://www.elsevier.
observed in the test set, underscoring its effectiveness in com/about/policies/copyright/permissions, we release the
utilizing unlabeled data in semi-supervised settings. The DOI of the files within our dataset alongside our data
results highlight the potential of our model in practical collection code. This approach enables users to recollect our
tance of class balancing. Lastly, the absence of the remix
applications where labeled data is scarce.
data collection
steps,
but always
within
component negatively
impacts
performance
in both
met-the constraints set
by thethe
original
data of
providers’
permissions.
rics, highlighting
advantages
enhancing
diversity.
We also tried an alternative remix operation proposed by
7 C ONCLUSION AND B ROADER I MPACTS Berthelot et al. (2020), which only performs poorly on
This observation aligns with the findings
In this study, we introduce the first large-scaletextual
chemi-tasks.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
presented at https://github.com/microsoft/Semi-supervisedcal question-answering dataset, gathered from academic
learning/blob/main/results/usb
nlp.csv. One
exsources. Given the inherent imbalance of the data attributes,
The work was supported
by plausible
King Abdullah
University of
planation
could
be
the
RemixMatch
operation,
where
cases
we further present QAMatch, a question-answering model Science and Technology (KAUST) through grant awards
from different labels were combined, potentially introducing
specifically adapted for imbalanced semi-supervised learn- FCC/1/1976-44-01, FCC/1/1976-45-01, REI/1/5234-01-01,
excessive noise to the QA tasks.
ing. This model introduces label-rebalance and pseudo- and RGC/3/4816-01-01.

Ethic discussion
Our dataset is drawn from various academic platforms, each

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

R EFERENCES
[1]

P. Christmann, R. Saha Roy, and G. Weikum, “Conversational
question answering on heterogeneous sources,” in Proceeding of
International Conference on Research on Development in Information
Retrieval, 2022.
[2] C. Qu, L. Yang, C. Chen, M. Qiu, W. B. Croft, and M. Iyyer,
“Open-retrieval conversational question answering,” in Proceeding
of International Conference on Research on Development in Information
Retrieval, 2020.
[3] V. Bolotova, V. Blinov, F. Scholer, W. B. Croft, and M. Sanderson,
“A non-factoid question-answering taxonomy,” in Proceeding of
International Conference on Research on Development in Information
Retrieval, 2022.
[4] C. Clark, K. Lee, M.-W. Chang, T. Kwiatkowski, M. Collins, and
K. Toutanova, “Boolq: Exploring the surprising difficulty of natural yes/no questions,” in Proceeding of of North American Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2019.
[5] A. Ghoshal, S. Iyer, B. Paranjape, K. Lakhotia, S. W.-t. Yih, and
Y. Mehdad, “Quaser: Question answering with scalable extractive
rationalization,” in Proceeding of International Conference on Research
on Development in Information Retrieval, 2022.
[6] A. Garcia-Silva, C. Berrio, J. M. Gomez-Perez, J. A. Martı́nezHeras, A. Donati, and I. Roma, “Spaceqa: Answering questions
about the design of space missions and space craft concepts,” in
Proceeding of International Conference on Research on Development in
Information Retrieval, 2022.
[7] G. Peretz, M. Arraf, and K. Radinsky, “What if: Generating code
to answer simulation questions in chemistry texts,” in Proceedings
of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and
Development in Information Retrieval, 2023, pp. 1335–1344.
[8] Q. Jin, B. Dhingra, Z. Liu, W. Cohen, and X. Lu, “Pubmedqa: A
dataset for biomedical research question answering,” in Proceeding
of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2019.
[9] D. Jin, E. Pan, N. Oufattole, W.-H. Weng, H. Fang, and P. Szolovits,
“What disease does this patient have? a large-scale open domain
question answering dataset from medical exams,” Applied Sciences,
2021.
[10] H. Wang, L. Zhou, W. Zhang, and X. Wang, “Literatureqa: A
qestion answering corpus with graph knowledge on academic
literature,” in Proceeding of CIKM, 2021.
[11] X. Zhou, D. Nurkowski, S. Mosbach, J. Akroyd, and M. Kraft,
“Question answering system for chemistry,” Journal of Chemical
Information and Modeling, 2021.
[12] C. Huang, Y. Li, C. C. Loy, and X. Tang, “Learning deep representation for imbalanced classification,” in Proceedings of the IEEE
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2016, pp. 5375–
5384.
[13] J. Allan, J. Aslam, N. Belkin, C. Buckley, J. Callan, B. Croft, S. Dumais, N. Fuhr, D. Harman, D. J. Harper et al., “Challenges in information retrieval and language modeling: report of a workshop
held at the center for intelligent information retrieval, university
of massachusetts amherst, september 2002,” in ACM SIGIR Forum,
vol. 37, no. 1. ACM New York, NY, USA, 2003, pp. 31–47.
[14] P. J. Smith, S. J. Shute, B. Galdes, and M. H. Chignell, “Knowledgebased search tactics for an intelligent intermediary system,” ACM
Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS), vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 246–
270, 1989.
[15] B. Sun, P. Mitra, C. Lee Giles, and K. T. Mueller, “Identifying,
indexing, and ranking chemical formulae and chemical names
in digital documents,” ACM Transactions on Information Systems
(TOIS), vol. 29, no. 2, pp. 1–38, 2011.
[16] R. Entlich, J. Olsen, L. Garson, M. Lesk, L. Normore, and S. Weibel,
“Making a digital library: the contents of the core project,” ACM
Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS), vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 103–
123, 1997.
[17] M. Lupu, J. Huang, J. Zhu, and J. Tait, “Trec-chem: large scale
chemical information retrieval evaluation at trec,” in Acm Sigir
Forum, vol. 43, no. 2. ACM New York, NY, USA, 2009, pp. 63–70.
[18] N. Pang, L. Qian, W. Lyu, and J.-D. Yang, “Transfer learning for
scientific data chain extraction in small chemical corpus with joint
bert-crf model.” in BIRNDL@ SIGIR, 2019, pp. 28–41.
[19] N. Krdzavac, S. Mosbach, D. Nurkowski, P. Buerger, J. Akroyd,
J. Martin, A. Menon, and M. Kraft, “An ontology and semantic
web service for quantum chemistry calculations,” Journal of chemical information and modeling, 2019.

13

[20] F. Farazi, J. Akroyd, S. Mosbach, P. Buerger, D. Nurkowski,
M. Salamanca, and M. Kraft, “Ontokin: An ontology for chemical
kinetic reaction mechanisms,” Journal of Chemical Information and
Modeling, 2019.
[21] Z. Wei, W. Ji, X. Geng, Y. Chen, B. Chen, T. Qin, and D. Jiang,
“Chemistryqa: A complex question answering dataset from chemistry,” 2020.
[22] D. Hendrycks, C. Burns, S. Basart, A. Zou, M. Mazeika, D. Song,
and J. Steinhardt, “Measuring massive multitask language understanding,” ICLR, 2021.
[23] L. Yang, C.-K. Hsieh, H. Yang, J. P. Pollak, N. Dell, S. Belongie,
C. Cole, and D. Estrin, “Yum-me: a personalized nutrient-based
meal recommender system,” ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS), vol. 36, no. 1, pp. 1–31, 2017.
[24] H. Huang, X. Wei, L. Nie, X. Mao, and X.-S. Xu, “From question
to text: Question-oriented feature attention for answer selection,”
ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS), vol. 37, no. 1, pp.
1–33, 2018.
[25] S. Liang, Y. Luo, and Z. Meng, “Profiling users for question
answering communities via flow-based constrained co-embedding
model,” ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS), vol. 40,
no. 2, pp. 1–38, 2021.
[26] V. Yadav, R. Sharp, and M. Surdeanu, “Sanity check: A strong
alignment and information retrieval baseline for question answering,” in The 41st International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research &
Development in Information Retrieval, 2018, pp. 1217–1220.
[27] A. Pal, L. K. Umapathi, and M. Sankarasubbu, “Medmcqa: A
large-scale multi-subject multi-choice dataset for medical domain
question answering,” in Conference on Health, Inference, and Learning. PMLR, 2022, pp. 248–260.
[28] J. Li, S. Zhong, and K. Chen, “Mlec-qa: A chinese multi-choice
biomedical question answering dataset,” in Proceedings of the 2021
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
2021, pp. 8862–8874.
[29] Z. Yang, P. Qi, S. Zhang, Y. Bengio, W. Cohen, R. Salakhutdinov,
and C. D. Manning, “Hotpotqa: A dataset for diverse, explainable
multi-hop question answering,” in Proceeding of Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing, 2018.
[30] T. Kwiatkowski, J. Palomaki, O. Redfield, M. Collins, A. Parikh,
C. Alberti, D. Epstein, I. Polosukhin, J. Devlin, K. Lee et al., “Natural questions: A benchmark for question answering research,”
Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2019.
[31] M. Saeidi, M. Bartolo, P. Lewis, S. Singh, T. Rocktäschel, M. Sheldon, G. Bouchard, and S. Riedel, “Interpretation of natural language rules in conversational machine reading,” in Proceeding of
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2018.
[32] G. Tsatsaronis, G. Balikas, P. Malakasiotis, I. Partalas, M. Zschunke,
M. R. Alvers, D. Weissenborn, A. Krithara, S. Petridis, D. Polychronopoulos et al., “An overview of the bioasq large-scale
biomedical semantic indexing and question answering competition,” BMC bioinformatics, 2015.
[33] S. Ertekin, J. Huang, and C. L. Giles, “Active learning for class
imbalance problem,” in Proceedings of the 30th annual international
ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information
retrieval, 2007, pp. 823–824.
[34] A. Moreo, A. Esuli, and F. Sebastiani, “Distributional random
oversampling for imbalanced text classification,” in Proceedings
of the 39th International ACM SIGIR conference on Research and
Development in Information Retrieval, 2016, pp. 805–808.
[35] M. Naseri and H. Zamani, “Analyzing and predicting news popularity in an instant messaging service,” in Proceedings of the 42nd
International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in
Information Retrieval, 2019, pp. 1053–1056.
[36] Y. Zhu, X. Wang, Q. Li, T. Yao, and S. Liang, “Botspot++: A
hierarchical deep ensemble model for bots install fraud detection
in mobile advertising,” ACM Transactions on Information Systems
(TOIS), vol. 40, no. 3, pp. 1–28, 2021.
[37] M. Lukasik, K. Bontcheva, T. Cohn, A. Zubiaga, M. Liakata, and
R. Procter, “Gaussian processes for rumour stance classification
in social media,” ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS),
vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 1–24, 2019.
[38] A. Frummet, D. Elsweiler, and B. Ludwig, ““what can i cook with
these ingredients?”-understanding cooking-related information
needs in conversational search,” ACM Transactions on Information
Systems (TOIS), vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 1–32, 2022.
[39] X. Quan, Q. Wang, Y. Zhang, L. Si, and L. Wenyin, “Latent
discriminative models for social emotion detection with emotional

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015

dependency,” ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS),
vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 1–19, 2015.
[40] P. Wang, Z. Yang, S. Niu, Y. Zhang, L. Zhang, and S. Niu, “Modeling dynamic pairwise attention for crime classification over legal
articles,” in the 41st international ACM SIGIR conference on research
& development in information retrieval, 2018, pp. 485–494.
[41] B. Xu, J. Huang, L. Hou, H. Shen, J. Gao, and X. Cheng, “Labelconsistency based graph neural networks for semi-supervised
node classification,” in Proceeding of International Conference on
Research on Development in Information Retrieval, 2020.
[42] J. Lee, Y. Oh, Y. In, N. Lee, D. Hyun, and C. Park, “Grafn: Semisupervised node classification on graph with few labels via nonparametric distribution assignment,” in Proceeding of International
Conference on Research on Development in Information Retrieval, 2022.
[43] S. Li, M. Yang, C. Li, and R. Xu, “Dual pseudo supervision
for semi-supervised text classification with a reliable teacher,” in
Proceeding of International Conference on Research on Development in
Information Retrieval, 2022.
[44] Y. Cui, M. Jia, T.-Y. Lin, Y. Song, and S. Belongie, “Class-balanced
loss based on effective number of samples,” in Proceeding of
International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recogintion,
2019.
[45] K. Cao, C. Wei, A. Gaidon, N. Arechiga, and T. Ma, “Learning
imbalanced datasets with label-distribution-aware margin loss,”
Proceeding of Neural Information Processing Systems, 2019.
[46] J. Tan, C. Wang, B. Li, Q. Li, W. Ouyang, C. Yin, and J. Yan,
“Equalization loss for long-tailed object recognition,” in Proceeding
of International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recogintion, 2020.
[47] J. Ren, C. Yu, X. Ma, H. Zhao, S. Yi et al., “Balanced meta-softmax
for long-tailed visual recognition,” Proceeding of Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2020.
[48] D. Berthelot, N. Carlini, E. D. Cubuk, A. Kurakin, K. Sohn,
H. Zhang, and C. Raffel, “Remixmatch: Semi-supervised learning
with distribution alignment and augmentation anchoring,” Proceeding of International Conference on Learning Representations, 2020.
[49] H. Chen, R. Tao, Y. Fan, Y. Wang, J. Wang, B. Schiele, X. Xie, B. Raj,
and M. Savvides, “Softmatch: Addressing the quantity-quality
tradeoff in semi-supervised learning,” in Proceeding of International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[50] G. Faggioli, L. Dietz, C. L. Clarke, G. Demartini, M. Hagen,
C. Hauff, N. Kando, E. Kanoulas, M. Potthast, B. Stein et al.,
“Perspectives on large language models for relevance judgment,”
in Proceeding of International Conference on Research on Development
in Information Retrieval, 2023.
[51] S. Tian, Q. Jin, L. Yeganova, P.-T. Lai, Q. Zhu, X. Chen, Y. Yang,
Q. Chen, W. Kim, D. C. Comeau et al., “Opportunities and challenges for chatgpt and large language models in biomedicine and
health,” Briefings in Bioinformatics, vol. 25, no. 1, p. bbad493, 2024.
[52] J. Zhou and X. Gao, “Skingpt: A dermatology diagnostic system with vision large language model,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.10691, 2023.
[53] K. M. Jablonka, P. Schwaller, A. Ortega-Guerrero, and B. Smit, “Is
gpt-3 all you need for low-data discovery in chemistry?” 2023.
[54] C. M. Castro Nascimento and A. S. Pimentel, “Do large language
models understand chemistry? a conversation with chatgpt,” Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 2023.
[55] T. Guo, K. Guo, Z. Liang, Z. Guo, N. V. Chawla, O. Wiest, X. Zhang
et al., “What indeed can gpt models do in chemistry? a comprehensive benchmark on eight tasks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.18365,
2023.
[56] O. A. Jefferson, A. Jaffe, D. Ashton, B. Warren, D. Koellhofer,
U. Dulleck, A. Ballagh, J. Moe, M. DiCuccio, K. Ward et al.,
“Mapping the global influence of published research on industry
and innovation,” Nature biotechnology, 2018.
[57] K. Toutanvoa and C. D. Manning, “Enriching the knowledge
sources used in a maximum entropy part-of-speech tagger,” in
Proceeding of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2000.
[58] Y. Wang, H. Chen, Q. Heng, W. Hou, M. Savvides, T. Shinozaki,
B. Raj, Z. Wu, and J. Wang, “Freematch: Self-adaptive thresholding
for semi-supervised learning,” Proceeding of International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2023.
[59] Y. Gan, X. Chen, Q. Huang, M. Purver, J. R. Woodward, J. Xie, and
P. Huang, “Towards robustness of text-to-sql models against synonym substitution,” in Proceeding of Association for Computational
Linguistics, 2021, pp. 2505–2515.

14

[60] M. D. Zeiler and R. Fergus, “Visualizing and understanding convolutional networks,” in Proceeding of ECCV, 2014.
[61] V. Verma, A. Lamb, C. Beckham, A. Najafi, I. Mitliagkas, D. LopezPaz, and Y. Bengio, “Manifold mixup: Better representations by interpolating hidden states,” in Proceeding of International Conference
on Machine Learning, 2019.
[62] X. Chen, G. Long, C. Tao, M. Li, X. Gao, C. Zhang, and X. Zhang,
“Improving the robustness of summarization systems with dual
augmentation,” Proceeding of Association for Computational Linguistics, 2023.
[63] J. D. M.-W. C. Kenton and L. K. Toutanova, “Bert: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding,” in
Proceeding of AAssociation for Computational Linguistics, 2019.
[64] K. Sohn, D. Berthelot, N. Carlini, Z. Zhang, H. Zhang, C. A. Raffel,
E. D. Cubuk, A. Kurakin, and C.-L. Li, “Fixmatch: Simplifying
semi-supervised learning with consistency and confidence,” Proceeding of Neural Information Processing Systems, 2020.
[65] H. Touvron, L. Martin, K. Stone, P. Albert, A. Almahairi, Y. Babaei,
N. Bashlykov, S. Batra, P. Bhargava, S. Bhosale et al., “Llama
2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.09288, 2023.
[66] X. Zhang, J. Zhao, and Y. LeCun, “Character-level convolutional
networks for text classification,” Proceeding of Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2015.
[67] H. Tzaban, I. Guy, A. Greenstein-Messica, A. Dagan, L. Rokach,
and B. Shapira, “Product bundle identification using semisupervised learning,” in Proceeding of International Conference on
Research on Development in Information Retrieval, 2020.
[68] J. Kim, Y. Hur, S. Park, E. Yang, S. J. Hwang, and J. Shin, “Distribution aligning refinery of pseudo-label for imbalanced semisupervised learning,” Proceeding of Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2020.
[69] H. Lee, S. Shin, and H. Kim, “Abc: Auxiliary balanced classifier for
class-imbalanced semi-supervised learning,” Proceeding of Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2021.
[70] C. Wei, K. Sohn, C. Mellina, A. Yuille, and F. Yang, “Crest: A
class-rebalancing self-training framework for imbalanced semisupervised learning,” in Proceeding of International Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recogintion, 2021.
[71] J. R. Hershey and P. A. Olsen, “Approximating the kullback leibler
divergence between gaussian mixture models,” in 2007 IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal ProcessingICASSP’07, vol. 4. IEEE, 2007, pp. IV–317.

