IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

1

Write Summary Step-by-Step:
A Pilot Study of Stepwise Summarization

arXiv:2406.05361v1 [cs.CL] 8 Jun 2024

Xiuying Chen∗ , Shen Gao∗ , Mingzhe Li, Qingqing Zhu, Xin Gao† , Xiangliang Zhang†

Abstract—Nowadays, neural text generation has made tremendous progress in abstractive summarization tasks. However,
most of the existing summarization models take in the whole
document all at once, which sometimes cannot meet the needs
in practice. Practically, social text streams such as news events
and tweets keep growing from time to time, and can only be
fed to the summarization system step by step. Hence, in this
paper, we propose the task of Stepwise Summarization, which
aims to generate a new appended summary each time a new
document is proposed. The appended summary should not only
summarizes the newly added content but is also coherent with
the previous summary, to form an up-to-date complete summary.
To tackle this challenge, we design an adversarial learning
model, named Stepwise Summary Generator (SSG). First, SSG
selectively processes the new document under the guidance of
the previous summary, obtaining polished document representation. Next, SSG generates the summary considering both the
previous summary and the document. Finally, a convolutionalbased discriminator is employed to determine whether the newly
generated summary is coherent with the previous summary.
For the experiment, we extend the traditional two-step update
summarization setting to multi-step stepwise setting, and repropose a large-scale stepwise summarization dataset based on
a public story generation dataset. Extensive experiments on this
dataset show that SSG achieves state-of-the-art performance in
terms of both automatic metrics and human evaluations. Ablation
studies demonstrate the effectiveness of each module in our
framework. We also discuss the benefits and limitations of recent
large language models on this task.
Index Terms—Text generation, abstraction summarization,
neural networks.

I. I NTRODUCTION
First, we will answer three possible questions to illustrate
the main contributions of this paper.
A. What is stepwise summarization?
Nowadays, social text streams such as news events and
tweets spread throughout the Internet, and summarization is
an ideal solution to provide a condensed, informative document reorganization for faster and better representation of
information evolution [1]. Most of the existing summarization
Xiuying Chen and Xin Gao are with the Computer, Electrical and Mathematical Sciences and Engineering division at KAUST, Saudi Arabia, (email:
xiuying.chen@kaust.edu.sa,xin.gao@kaust.edu.sa).
Shen Gao is with the University of Electronic Science and Technology of
China, China (email: shengao@sdu.edu.cn. Mingzhe Li is with Ant Group,
China (email: limingzhe.lmz@antgroup.com). Qingqing Zhu is with Peking
university, China (email: zhuqingqing@pku.edu.cn.).
Xiangliang Zhang is with University of Notre Dame, America and secondly
affiliated with KAUST (email: xzhang33@nd.edu.)
*These authors contributed equally to this work.
†Corresponding authors.

TABLE I
E XAMPLE OF NEW DOCUMENT- SUMMARY PAIR FROM OUR DATASET. I N
THE PREVIOUS SUMMARY, THE CHARACTER S TEPHANIE CLAIMS THAT
SHE CAN CONTINUE TO WORK , BUT IN THE NEW DOCUMENT, SHE CANNOT
FOCUS ON HER WORK .
Previous Summary: Stephanie concedes that perhaps she did have
a little stroke, but she is fine, still a force to be reckoned with.
Nick calls for a meeting and Stephanie tells Pam that she will be
there despite her protests. She needs to prove she can still do what
she does. Nothing will change that. Nick calls her a one woman
dynamo.
Newly added document: ... Marcus says they were good people
but “finding mom was the greatest thing that could have happened.” Marcus asks if he has any other kids. Justin says he tried
and breaks down as he says Marcus is there before him. Everyone
looks at numbers as Nick says they need to hire a third shift.
Bridget says the Economy still has not recovered. They leave the
decision to Stephanie and tell her to look at page 20. She says
she does not need to look at a page she knows what is best for
the company and will go with her instincts. She says “if there is
a problem with that, there’s the door.” Nick throws Jackie a look
of confusion.
New Summary: However, during the meeting Stephanie can not
concentrate on the figures and offers that she will do what she
always has done on instinct and it’s that or show her the door.
Marcus wants his question answered.

approaches take in the whole document and generate the
corresponding summary all at once. However, in practice, text
streams come in sequence instead of simultaneously, and it is
important for readers to get the most up-to-date information
each time a new event occurs. Hence, we propose the task of
stepwise summarization task, which aims to generate a new
appended summary each time a new document is proposed.
The appended summary should not only summarize the newly
added content but also be coherent with the previous summary,
so as to form an up-to-date complete summary.
In such a scenario, the previous summary, i.e., summary of
previous documents in the stream, is important in two ways.
On one hand, the newly generated summary must be coherent
with the previous summary. Considering Table I which is
an episode recap collected from a fan-contributed website,
the new document introduces that the character Stephanie
cannot concentrate on her work, while the previous summary
describes that she says she is able to work despite her protests.
Hence, the appended new summary summarizes the new status
of Stephanie with a turning sentence. On the other hand,
the previous summary helps capture the salient part of the
new document. To this end, in this paper, we propose a
Stepwise Summary Generator (SSG) which incorporates both
the previous summary and newly added document to generate
a more coherent appended summary, so as to obtain the whole

IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

Stream Summarization

Update Summarization

Memorize

Extract

Forget

! + 2 time
Summarize

Read

Read

! + 1 time
Summarize

Read

Summarize

Stepwise Summarization
Summarize

Read

! + 1 time

!…! + # time

! time

! time

Summarize

2

Read

! + 2 time
Summarize

Read

Read

New reader

New reader

Read

Fig. 1. Comparison between stream summarization, update summarization, and stepwise summarization. Stream summarization [2]: a large number documents
are taken as input, and some of the documents are selected as summary. Update summarization [3]: the task is to summarize the new document, assuming
the reader already knows about previous documents. Stepwise summarization: This setting does not require the reader to have any prior knowledge about
the text stream. The generated summary contains all the information about the text stream, and is kept fluent all the time steps.

summary of a text stream. We show an example in Figure 1
to illustrate the task definition of stepwise summarization.
B. Why not traditional abstractive summarization?
On one hand, if traditional summarization models only take
the current newly added document as input to generate the
corresponding summary, they will lose the information from
previous documents that is helpful for current summarization.
The generated summaries may also be incoherent with each
other. On the other hand, if traditional models take all existing
documents as input, it is easy to confuse information between
events and provide inaccurate period division for readers. It is
also redundant to repeatedly generate the same summary for
previous documents. The stepwise summarization is related to
stream summarization and update summarization, where we
give the comparison in Figure I and the related work section.
C. How to conduct stepwise summarization?
To begin with, SSG captures the main points in the document with the help of the previous summary. Concretely, after
processing the document and previous summary through selfattention, we propose a selective recurrent unit to selectively
processes document representation under the guidance from
the previous summary, so that document representation is
further polished. Second, a decoder is used to generate a
new summary, incorporating both the polished representations
of documents and the summary. Finally, the training of our
framework is conducted in an adversarial way, where we
employ a convolutional discriminator to distinguish whether
the generated summary is coherent with the previous summary.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that SSG significantly
outperforms the state-of-the-art summarization baselines in
ROUGE metrics and human evaluations.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows:
• We propose the task of stepwise summarization, which
generates an appended summary each time a new document
is generated, considering previous information.
• To address this task, we introduce a paradigm that
leverages the previous summary to enhance the current one,
using an interaction and coherence discriminator.

• We release a large-scale stepwise summarization dataset.
Experimental results on this dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed framework.
II. R ELATED W ORK
A. Text summarization.
Text summarization can be classified into extractive and abstractive methods. Extractive methods [4]–[8] directly extract
the sentences or text span from the input document as the
summary. Specifically, [9] proposed the joint sentence scoring
and selection framework which directly predicts the relative
sentence importance score according to both sentence content
and previously selected sentences. However, summaries generated by extractive methods always suffer from redundancy
problems and are not as flexible as abstractive methods.
Recently, with the emergence of neural network models for
text generation, a vast majority of efforts have been dedicated
to abstractive summarization [10]–[14]. For example, [15]
used sentence-level attention to modulate word-level attention
such that words in less attended sentences are less likely to
be generated. [16] used a data-efficient content selector to
emphasize phrases in a source document that should be part
of the summary. To tackle the out-of-vocabulary problem in
abstractive summarization models, some researchers employ
a copy mechanism to copy certain words from the input
document to the summary [17], [18].
B. Timeline summarization.
Timeline summarization was firstly proposed by [23], and
it involves extracting a single sentence from each event
within a news topic. Since the original work, a series of
works [24]–[26] further investigate this task. [24] aimed to
return the evolution trajectory along the timeline, emphasizing
relevance, coverage, coherence, and cross-date diversity. [27],
[28] followed the style of abstractive timeline summarization.
More recently, [29] examined both the general approaches
to this task and its current state of resolution, and [30]
suggested enhancing timeline summarization by generating
multiple summaries.

IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

3

TABLE II
C ORPUS BIAS TOWARDS EXTRACTIVE METHODS IN THE CNN/DAILY M AIL [19], N EWSROOM [20], XS UM [21], R EDDIT [22] AND SSD DATASETS . W E
SHOW THE PROPORTION OF NOVEL n- GRAMS IN GOLD SUMMARIES . W E ALSO REPORT ROUGE SCORES FOR THE EXTRACTIVE L E A D AND
ABSTRACTIVE PG BASELINE . R ESULTS ARE COMPUTED ON THE TEST SET.
Datasets
CNN/DailyMail
Newsroom
XSum
Reddit
SSD

% of novel n-grams in gold summary
unigrams
bigrams
trigrams
4-grams
19.50
19.53
35.76
48.97
38.31

56.88
48.39
83.45
84.45
85.35

74.41
59.38
95.50
94.50
97.20

82.8
64.06
98.49
97.82
98.86

However, timeline summarization also belongs to the classic
static summarization framework, dealing with a static corpus
instead of a dynamic, continuously growing stream.
C. Streaming summarization.
Stepwise summarization is also similar to the streaming
summarization task, which summarizes a stream of documents
aligned on the timeline. Initial works include [31], where
they aim to deal with dynamic, quickly arriving, and largescale tweet streams. They proposed a prototype called Sumblr
(SUMmarization By stream cLusteRing) for tweet streams.
Following their work, [32] improved the efficiency of this
process. Processing is done in a single pass, removing the need
to save any input data and improving the running time. [33]
further focused on time-aware multi-viewpoint summarization
of multilingual social text streams. Both of timeline and
streaming summarization tasks take stream documents all at
once, while in our stepwise summarization task, the input
documents come in sequence.
D. Update summarization.
Our task shares some common features with the update
summarization task, which also aims to summarize key information from documents arriving in a sequence. Concretely,
the setting typically includes two document sets A and B,
and the task is to summarize B assuming the reader already
knows about A [3]. The challenge in update summarization is
to deal with multi-document summarization, handling redundancy between multiple documents, as well as the redundancy
between A and B. This task differs from ours because its
generated summaries do not form a coherent text sequence.
This series of update summarization works mainly focus on
TAC dataset [3], where the task is to extract a summary of
a subsequent set of newswire articles for the same topic,
under the assumption that the reader has already read the
previous documents. This dataset contains only 48 topics
with 960 documents. Initial works include [34], which is a
scalable sentence scoring method for query-oriented update
summarization. [35] presented an unsupervised probabilistic
approach to model novelty in a document collection and apply
it to the generation of update summaries. MCL [36] is the
state-of-the-art extractive work on this dataset, which examines
how integrating a semantic sentence similarity into an update
summarization system can improve its results.

R1

lead
R2

RL

R1

PG
R2

RL

PG/lead
Ratio (R-L)

39.6
30.5
16.3
3.4
26.31

17.7
21.3
1.6
0.0
4.79

36.2
28.4
11.9
3.3
23.56

36.4
26.0
29.7
18.3
36.83

15.7
13.3
8.8
6.5
9.07

33.4
22.4
22.6
17.9
34.37

0.92x
0.78x
1.89x
5.42x
1.45x

III. S TEPWISE S UMMARIZATION DATASET
Existing large-scale summarization datasets cannot be used
for stepwise summarization, since they only contain information about a single event. In contrast, a TV show episode
recaps usually records the developments of events over time.
Thus, our dataset, named Stepwise Summarization Dataset
(SSD), is re-collected from a public story generation dataset
TVMegaSite [37]. As illustrated in Figure 2, each case in our
dataset contains a document stream and the corresponding
streaming summary. Each document stream contains several
documents, and each summary stream contains the corresponding summaries. For each doc-summ pair in doc-summ stream,
we name all summaries and all documents before this pair as
previous summary and previous document, and document in
this pair as new document.
A. Dataset collection.
In each case in the story generation dataset TVMegaSite,
there is a detailed TV show episode recaps and a brief
summary of the episode. Since the episode recap is mostly
arranged according to the sequence of events, there is a strict
logic in it. Consequently, the summary often follows the same
logical order as a good-quality summary does. Hence, an
episode recap can be regarded as the streaming data source,
and the summary summarizes the stream in order. To select
document-summary pairs that establish such correspondences,
we first use the text segmentation technique to split the
summary stream into segments. The episode recap is separated
into paragraphs in the original dataset. Then, we calculate
the mean of ROUGE-1, ROUGE-2, and ROUGE-L scores
between each summary segment and document paragraphs.
We choose the section with the highest ROUGE-L score as
the corresponding source document for the summary segment.
For each source paragraph, the summary segment that has the
highest ROUGE score with it is selected as its corresponding
summary. A document stream with less than two paragraphs
will also be filtered. Overall, SSD consists of 29,376 docsumm pair samples, 5,208 validation samples, and 5,718 test
samples. A document consists of 610 words, and a summary
contains 87 words on average. Document streams containing
2,3,4, and 5 documents make up 35%, 22%, 18%, and 5% of
the total respectively.
Our dataset is notably the first large-scale stepwise summarization dataset and will be released for further research.
Detailed statistics for SSD and a comparison with other
popular text summarization datasets are listed in Table II.

IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

arriving in sequence

Document
Stream

Streaming
Summary

Document1
Summary
Sentence1
Document2

Summary
Sentence2
Summary
Sentence3
...

Document3
...

4

n-grams cannot be generated by extractive models. What is
more, SSD has a weak lead bias. The Lead baseline is to
select the first three sentences in the document as a summary,
and the PG baseline corresponds to the strong abstractive
summarization baseline [18]. The higher the PG/Lead score,
the weaker the lead bias of the dataset. News datasets such
as CNN/DailyMail and Newsroom always have a strong lead
bias, with a PG/Lead ratio of less than one. Datasets such
as XSum and Reddit overcome this problem. Our dataset also
has a weak lead bias, where the PG/Lead ratio is larger than
one.

Fig. 2. Illustration of a sample in the stepwise summarization dataset.

IV. P ROBLEM F ORMULATION
Lead selects the first sentence for Reddit dataset, and the first
three sentences for others. Next, we demonstrate the quality
of the dataset and then discuss some abstractive characteristics
of SSD compared to existing summarization datasets.
B. Stepwise summarization characteristics.
Human evaluation. We assess the quality of our stepwise
summarization data from two aspects: whether the source
summary corresponds to the document, and whether the previous summary relates to the new document. The first aspect
reflects the quality of the summarization attribute and the
second reflects the stream attribute. Summarization attribute
here means whether the summary can correctly summarize
important information from document, and stream attribute
means whether the previous information relates to current
document. We randomly sample 100 cases from SSD and
perform Amazon’s Mechanical Turk tests, where three annotators are asked to assess the aforementioned aspects for
each selection, i.e., with “yes” and “no”. The result shows that
“yes” accounts for 94.3% and 95.0% of the answers for the
summarization attribute and stream attribute, while “no” only
takes up 5.7%, and 5.0%, respectively. This demonstrates that
the dataset does indeed have good summarization and stream
attributes. The kappa statistic is 0.57, which demonstrates
moderate agreement between turkers.
Automatic evaluation. We also propose an automatic
method to evaluate the dataset, since the original TVMegaSite
dataset provides all the mentioned character names. Ideally,
if a character exists in a summary, he/she should also be
included in the source paragraph, and vice versa. Hence, we
calculate the percentage of cases when a character name exists
in the paired document and summary (good case), and the
cases when it only exists in the summary (bad case). The
result shows that 89% of cases are good cases. This again
demonstrates the good quality of the dataset.
C. Abstractive characteristics.
SSD has various abstractive characteristics, including strong
abstractness and weak lead bias, as shown in Table II. About
38.31% unigrams and 96.68% 4-grams in the gold summary
are novel n-grams that do not exist in the input document,
indicating strong abstractness in the dataset. This leads to a
necessity for abstractive summarization methods since these

Before presenting our approach for the stepwise summarization, we first introduce our notations and key concepts.
To begin with, for a document X d = {xd1 , xd2 , . . . , xdT d }, we
assume there is a previous document-summary pair, where the
previous summary is X s = {xs1 , xs2 , . . . , xsT s }. xdi denotes the
i-th word in document X d , and xsi denotes the i-th word in
previous summary X s . Given the document X d and previous
summary X s , the summary generator generates a summary
Ŷ = {ŷ1 , ŷ2 , . . . , ŷT Ŷ }. Finally, we use the difference between
the generated summary Ŷ and the ground truth summary Y =
{y1 , y2 , . . . , yT Y } as the training signal to optimize the model
parameters.
V. T HE P ROPOSED SSG M ODEL
A. Overview
In this section, we propose the Stepwise Summary Generator, abbreviated as SSG. An overview of SSG is shown in
Figure 3, which can be split into three main parts:
• Stream-aware encoder incorporates the previous summary
to calculate the selective reading gate in the gated recurrent
unit, further polishing the document representation.
• Summary generator generates a summary taking both the
polished document and previous summary into consideration.
• Coherence discriminator uses a convolutional neural
network (CNN) to identify whether the generated summary
is coherent with the previous summary.
B. Stream-aware Encoder
We first use an embedding matrix e to map a one-hot
representation of each word in X d and X s into a highdimensional vector space. We then employ the Transformer
encoder [38] initialized by BART [39] to model the temporal
interactions between words, and obtain hdt and hst , denoting
the hidden state of the t-th word in X d , X s respectively.
To further model the interaction between a document and
previous summary, we propose to utilize the previous summary
to selectively read and process the document, in order to
emphasize the words that are related to the previous summary.
This is achieved by an RNN made up of Selective Reading
Unit (SRU). Our inspiration comes from [40], which iteratively
polished the document representation using document words.
However, in SSG, we use the previous summary representation
to polish the word representations in the document.

IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

5

(2) Summary Generator

(1) Stream-aware Encoder
Polished
document

Generated Summary

Selective
Reading

Document
Representation

Add & Normalization

Summary
Representation

Previous
Summary
Attention

(3) Coherence Discriminator

Polished
Document
Attention

Add & Normalization
BART Encoder

Document

Masked Self-Attention

Previous Summary

Gold Summary

Fig. 3. Overview of SSG. We divide our model into three parts: (1) Stream-aware Encoder (left) selectively processes document under guidance from the
previous summary. (2) Summary generator (middle) generates a summary taking both factors above into consideration. (3) Coherence discriminator (right)
determines whether the generated summary is coherent with the previous one.

We begin by introducing the original GRU cell, which
consists of an update gate vector ugt and a reset gate vector
rtg . In our case, the output is the polished representation of hdt ,
which is also the hidden state in the SRU cell, and we denoted
as hgt . For each time step t with the document representation
hdt and the previous hidden state hgt−1 , the updated hidden
state hgt = GRU(hdt , hgt−1 ) is computed by:

(3)

employ the classic Transformer architecture as the decoder.
Generally, each layer in the decoder consists of three parts:
a multi-head self-attention mechanism, a multi-head crossattention mechanism, and a fully connected feed-forward
network.
For each layer, at the t-th decoding step, we first apply the
self-attention on the masked summary embeddings, denoted as
gt . The self-attention sub-layer with a masking mechanism is
used to encode the decoded information. The masking mechanism ensures that the prediction of the position t depends only
on the known output of the position before t.

(4)

g̃t = LN (gt + MSAttn (g<t , g<t )) ,

ugt = σ(W1 hdt + U1 hgt−1 + b1 ),

(1)

rtg = σ(W2 hdt + U2 hgt−1 + b2 ),
h̃gt = tanh(W3 hdt + rtg ◦ U3 hgt−1 + b3 ),
hgt = ugt ◦ h˜gt + (1 − ugt ) ◦ hgt−1 ,

(2)

where W and b are trainable parameters, σ is the sigmoid
activation function, and ◦ is element-wise multiplication. Here,
due to the way ugt is calculated, it is sensitive to the position
and order of the current input document, but loses information
from the previous summary. In SRU, we propose to take the
previous summary into consideration when calculating ugt :
ft = [hdt ◦ q; hdt ; q],

(5)

Ft = W4 tanh(W5 ft + b5 ) + b4 ,
exp(Ft )
,
u′t = PT d
j=1 exp(Fj )

(6)
(7)

where [; ] denotes concatenation,
is the t-th word representation, and q is the average of the previous summary
representations hs· . Equation 4 now becomes:
hgt = u′t ◦ h̃gt + (1 − u′t ) ◦ hgt−1 .

where LN is the layer normalization operation; MSAttn is
the masked multi-head attention operation. Based on g̃t we
compute the cross-attention scores over polished document:
za,t = ReLU([g̃t Wa (hg Wb )T ]),

(8)

In this way, SSG automatically decides the extent to which
the information of each word should be updated based on its
relationship with the previous summary.

C. Summary Generator
The summary generator aims to generate a summary based
on the input document and the previous summary. We also

(10)

where Wa , Wb ∈ Rd×d , d is the hidden dimension, hg is
d
the concatenation of all hgi for i ∈ [1, Td ], and za,t ∈ RT .
Similarly, we also calculate the cross-attention scores over the
previous summary:
zb,t = ReLU([g̃t Wc (hs Wd )T ]),

hdt

(9)

(11)

s

where zb,t ∈ RT .
The attention weights za,t and zb,t are then used to obtain
the context vectors ca,t and cb,t , respectively. Take the document context vector as an example:
ca,t = za,t hg .

(12)

These context vectors, treated as salient contents summarized from various sources, are concatenated with the decoder
hidden state g̃t to produce the distribution over the target
vocabulary:
Ptvocab = Softmax (Wo [g̃t ; ca,t ; cb,t ]) .

(13)

IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

6

All the learnable parameters are updated by optimizing the
negative log likelihood objective function of predicting the
target words:
PT y
Ls = − t=1 log Ptvocab (yt ) .
(14)

fluency. We then use BERTScore [42] to calculate a similarity
score between the summaries based on their BERT embeddings. Since only using automatic evaluation metrics can be
misleading [43], we also conduct the human evaluation.

D. Coherence Discriminator

B. Comparison Methods

Previous work [41] has found that using a cross-entropy loss
alone is not enough for generating coherent text. Hence, we
employ a discriminator to provide additional training signals
for the summary generator. The goal of this discriminator is
to determine whether the new summary is coherent with the
previous one. The generated summary is treated as the negative
sample and the ground truth answer as the positive one.
Similar to before, we use the same embedding matrix and
another attention mechanism to process ŷ as hyt . Since the
ground truth is encoded by a transformer that is different
from the decoder transformer, we use a linear projection to
transform the high-dimensional space of hyt to the same space
as the decoder hidden state gt :

To evaluate the performance of our proposed model, we
compare it with the following baselines:
Lead3 selects the first three sentences of a document as
the summary. TextRank: [44] proposes to build a graph,
then adds each sentence as a vertex and uses links to
represent semantic similarity. MCL: [36] integrates semantic sentence similarity into an update summarization system. The proposed model is based on ILP [45], and is
easily adapted to a single-document summarization setting.
Transformer is based on attention mechanism proposed
in [38]. PG combines the sequence-to-sequence framework
with the copy mechanism from [18]. SAGCopy: a model proposed by [46], which augments Transformer with self-attention
guided copy mechanism. BART: a denoising autoencoder for
pretraining sequence-to-sequence models [39]. PEGASUS: a
model pre-trained with extracted gap-sentences for abstractive
summarization [47]. Our model is implemented based on
PEGASUS and BART due to their better performance. We
also propose two simple but intuitive models based on BART
and PEGASUS model, i.e., Concat-prev-summ (CPS),
which concatenates a new document with its previous summary, and Concat-prev-doc (CPD) which concatenates
new document with the previous document. For human evaluation, we also add the performance of the latest large language
model, GPT-3.5.

dyt = Wz hyt + bz .

(15)

We model the interaction between the previous summary
and generated one by concatenating them as dˆyt = [hst ; dyt ],
and the previous summary and ground truth summary as dˆgt =
[hst ; gt ]. Then, a convolutional layer convolves dˆ∗t with multiple
convolutional kernels of different widths, obtaining a sequence
of new features n∗t :
n∗t = relu(dˆ∗t ⊙ Wc + bc ),

(16)

where ⊙ denotes the convolution operation. For each convolutional filter, the max-pooling layer takes the maximal
value among the generated convolutional features ny and
ng , respectively, resulting in a fixed-size vector N y and N g .
Finally, we obtain the classification result D(dˆ∗ ):
D(dˆ∗ ) = σ(Wh relu(N ∗ ) + bh ).

(17)

The training objective of the discriminator is to maximize
the log-likelihood for classification, while the generator aims
to maximize the probability of assigning the correct label to
the generated summary:


Ld = − log(D(dˆy )) + log(1 − D(dˆg )) ,
(18)
Lg = log(1 − D(dˆg )).

(19)

Overall, the parameters in the convolutional discriminator
are optimized by the loss function Ld , while other parameters
are optimized by Lg .

C. Implementation Details
We implement our experiments in PyTorch on an NVIDIA
A100 GPU. The model is finetuned based on BART-base. The
encoding step is 1000 for a document and 300 for a previous
summary. We chose 1000 as our truncation size as we did not
find significant improvement when increasing the input length
from 1000 to 1500 tokens. The minimum decoding step is
100, and the maximum step is 300. The batch size is set to
32. We use Adam optimizer [48] as our optimizing algorithm.
We also apply gradient clipping [49] with a range of [−2, 2]
during training. For the test, we employ beam search with a
beam size of 4 to generate more fluent summaries.

VII. E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS
VI. E XPERIMENTAL S ETUP
A. Evaluation Metrics

A. Overall Performance

For evaluation, we adopt ROUGE scores [?] which are
widely applied to assess summarization quality [5], [15]. The
ROUGE metrics compare a generated summary with a reference summary by computing overlapping lexical units. We
report unigram and bigram overlap (ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-2)
as a means of assessing the informativeness and the longest
common subsequence (ROUGE-L) as a means of assessing

We first examine whether our stepwise summarization
model outperforms traditional summarization models. In this
setting, performances are evaluated in doc-summ pair level
(in contrast to doc-summ stream level). Table III lists the
performances of all comparison methods in terms of ROUGE
scores. Firstly, extractive methods are competitive with abstractive baselines in terms of ROUGE score but underperform

IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

TABLE III
ROUGE SCORE COMPARISONS BETWEEN BASELINES IN DOC - SUMM PAIR
LEVEL . A LL OUR ROUGE SCORES HAVE A 95% CONFIDENCE INTERVAL
OF AT MOST ±0.23 AS REPORTED BY THE OFFICIAL ROUGE SCRIPT.
RG-1

RG-2

RG-L

BS

Sentence extraction methods
Lead3
26.31
TextRank
32.71
MCL
33.57

4.79
6.49
6.73

23.56
29.06
29.96

86.01
85.90
85.88

Other previous information utilization methods
CPD
33.67
7.89
30.60
CPS
33.97
7.94
30.75

86.57
86.65

Text generation methods
Transformer
26.24
PG
27.18
SAGCopy
28.72
BART
33.30
PEGASUS
32.35
GPT3.5
33.67
SSG (PEGASUS)
34.23
SSG (BART)
34.92

86.04
86.12
86.39
86.42
86.10
86.23
86.54
86.96

5.56
5.82
6.44
7.55
6.91
6.39
8.08
8.65

24.79
25.01
25.82
30.18
29.78
31.03
31.24
31.68

TABLE IV
ROUGE SCORES OF DIFFERENT ABLATION MODELS .
ROUGE-1

ROUGE-2

ROUGE-L

BS

SSG w/o SR
SSG w/o GAN

34.01
34.38

8.20
8.41

31.04
31.28

86.57
86.86

SSG

34.92

8.65

31.68

86.96

in BERTScore. This indicates that the extracted summaries
have lower semantic similarity compared with abstractive
summaries. Secondly, abstractive models equipped with pretrained language models outperform traditional summarization
models. GPT-3.5 is competitive in a text-pair setting. Finally,
SSG achieves consistently better performance, with 4.86% and
4.97% improvements over BART in ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-L.
We next examine how effective is previous information
in stepwise summarization. Performances of these CPS and
CPD are relatively higher than BART but worse than SSG,
demonstrating that previous information is indeed helpful for
summary generation even by simple concatenation methods,
but this additional information is not the only reason why
SSG can achieve good performance. CPS gives better results
than CPD, which proves the superiority of using the previous
summary over using previous documents.
B. Ablation Study
Next, we conduct ablation tests to assess the importance
of the selective reading module (w/o SR), as well as the
discriminator (w/o GAN), and the ROUGE score results are
shown in Table IV. The discriminator provides the scalar training signal Ld for generator training. Consequently, there is an
increase in performance of 1.27% from SSG w/o GAN to SSG
in terms of ROUGE-L, which demonstrates the effectiveness
of the discriminator. As for the selective reading module, it
improves performance by 2.06% compared with SSG w/o SR,
in terms of ROUGE-L, indicating that a deeper interaction
between the previous summary and document further helps

7

summarization.
C. Performance on Text Stream
Note that previous experiments are based on generating a
single summary, whereas previous summaries are ground truth
summaries. To fully simulate a real text stream scene, we also
conduct experiments where the target is to generate the whole
summary stream, as shown in Figure 2. The difference lies
in that SSG now takes a previously generated summary as
the previous summary rather than the ground truth summary.
We select several strong abstractive models in Table III as
baselines. As stated in the introduction, there are two ways
of generating a summary stream for traditional abstractive
models. The first involves taking all documents and generating
all summaries together, while the second generates a summary
step-by-step. We denote the variations following the first
fashion as *-Together, and the second as *-Split.
The comparison results are listed in Table VII-D. We can
see that overall, the performance of each model under the
stepwise summarization setting is similar to its performance
under the original setting. *-Split methods are better than
*-Together, which may be because *-Together tend
to mix the information between documents, while *-Split
models can accurately utilize current document information,
even when they do not have access to knowledge from
previous documents. However, none of these models perform
as well as SSG, since it can utilize current document information, while also capturing the relationship between the
current and previous summary. GPT-3.5 falls behind in a textstream setting, likely due to difficulty in handling sequential
information. Note that in this setting, the ROUGE score is
calculated in terms of text stream level, thus the results are
not directly comparable to results in Table III.
D. Human Evaluation and Case Study
We also assessed system performance on the streaming
text by human judgments on 30 randomly selected instances
following [50]. Our first evaluation study quantified the degree to which summarization models retain key information
from the documents following a question-answering (QA)
paradigm. The evaluation size is 1.5 times larger than the
original setting [50]. We created a set of questions based on
the multiple gold ground summaries and examined whether
participants were able to answer these questions by reading
system summaries alone. We created 61 questions in total.
Examples of questions and their answers are given in Table VII. We adopted the same scoring mechanism used in
[51], i.e., correct answers are marked with 1, and 0 otherwise.
Our second evaluation assessed the overall quality of the
summaries by asking participants to rate them taking into
account the following criteria: Informativeness, Consistency,
and Succinctness. The rating score of each system ranges from
1 (worst) to 5 (best).
Both evaluations were conducted by three Ph.D.
students. Participants evaluated summaries produced by
SAGCopy-Split, BART-Split, GPT-3.5, and our
SSG. All evaluated systems were variants that achieved high
performance in automatic evaluations. As shown in Table VI,

IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

TABLE V
ROUGE SCORE COMPARISONS ON TEXT STREAM . ROUGE SCORE
COMPARISONS BETWEEN BASELINES . A LL SCORES HAVE A 95%
CONFIDENCE INTERVAL OF AT MOST ±0.28.
RG-1

RG-2

RG-L

BS

*-Together methods
Transformer-Together
PG-Together
SAGCopy-Together
PEGASUS-Together
BART-Together

36.17
36.36
37.89
45.05
45.36

8.76
8.79
9.50
10.76
11.15

33.45
33.95
35.54
42.74
43.14

82.29
82.41
82.74
84.22
85.34

*-Split methods
Transformer-Split
PG-Split
SAGCopy-Split
PEGASUS-Split
GPT-3.5
BART-Split
SSG

36.30
36.83
38.44
45.19
34.20
45.94
47.00

8.93
9.07
9.24
10.79
7.11
11.28
12.46

33.74
34.37
34.99
43.16
30.85
43.96
44.77

82.31
83.50
83.81
84.77
80.06
84.69
85.86

TABLE VI
S YSTEM SCORES BASED ON QUESTIONS ANSWERED BY HUMAN
ANNOTATORS AND SUMMARY QUALITY RATING .

SAGCopy-Split
BART-Split
SSG
GPT-3.5

QA(%)

Rating

34.42
40.98
45.90
48.39

3.26
3.56
3.81
4.03

on both evaluations, participants overwhelmingly prefer our
model compared with baselines of similar scales. All pairwise
comparisons among systems are statistically significant using
the paired student t-test for significance at α = 0.01.
We give two examples of system outputs in Table VII. In
the first case, we can see that our proposed model SSG can
generate a coherent, informative, and accurate summary. Both
baselines make some mistakes or miss important information.
In the second case, all baselines and our model make some
mistakes. BART-Split confuses the father and son, and our
SSG introduces “the son goes to the dad” while the fact is
“the dad goes to the son”. It’s evident that GPT-3.5 generally
performs comparably to our model, with the exception being
its misinterpretation of “leave Nikolas a widower” as “causing
Nikolas’s death”.

E. Influence of Previous Information
Since our stepwise summarization takes the previous information as input, we conduct an experiment to see the influence
of the relatedness between the previous and current information. Concretely, we calculate the ROUGE score between the
document and generated summary (DS score), and the score
between the document with previous summary (DP score).
The result is shown in Figure 4(a). It can be seen that the two
scores have a positive correlation with each other, which means
that a closer relationship between the previous and current
information can help improve summarization performance.
However, the DS scores are substantially higher than DP
scores, which means that the good performance of our model

8

TABLE VII
G OLD HUMAN AUTHORED SUMMARIES AND AUTOMATIC SUMMARIES
PRODUCED BY SEVERAL BASELINES AND OUR SSG.

Ground Truth Summary: Back at home, the not-so-happy newlyweds get into an argument which prompts Lydia to pick up the
phone and call a lawyer so she can have the marriage annulled.
However, Stefan catches her and hangs up the phone, telling her
that the only way she’ll get out of the marriage is by leaving
Nikolas a widower.
QA: Question: Who stops Lydia from calling a lawyer? Answer:
Stefan.
SAGCopy-Split: Emily and Stefan get into an argument which
prompts Lydia to call a lawyer so she can have the marriage
annulled. Stefan catches her and hangs up the phone, telling her
that the only way she’ll get out of the marriage is by leaving
Nikolas a widower.
BART-Split: Lydia and Stefan get into an argument which prompts
Lydia to pick up the phone and call a lawyer so she can have the
marriage annulled. However, Stefan catches her and hangs up.
GPT-3.5: Lydia and Nikolas have a heated argument,
leading Lydia to seek an annulment through a
lawyer. Stefan intervenes, insisting that the only way
she can escape the marriage is by causing Nikolas’s death.
SSG: Lydia and Stefan get into an argument which prompts Lydia
to call a lawyer so she can have the marriage annulled. However,
Stefan catches her and hangs up the phone, telling her that the only
way she’ll get out of the marriage is to leave Nikolas a widower.
Ground Truth Summary: Sonny goes to intervene in what could
have been an escalated situation involving Morgan’s confrontation
with a guy at the coffee shop. When it appears his son handled
the situation and nothing got out of hand, Sonny commends and
praises him, tells Morgan how proud he is of him and assures his
son all will be well as long as he takes the correct meds that have
proven successful.
QA: Question: Who is the father? Answer: Sonny.
SAGCopy-Split: Sonny talks to Morgan who encourages his son
to know that he did the right thing, reminding him he protected
Kiki without losing control. He tells Morgan he needs to keep
doing what he is doing and continue taking his meds and he will
be all right.
BART-Split:At the coffee shop, Sonny talks to his dad who encourages his son to know that he did the right thing by protecting
Kiki without losing control. He assures his son that the behavior
of the guy and the situation was enough to reasonably provoke
and piss anybody off. Sonny assures Morgan he merely needs to
keep doing what he is doing and will be all right.
GPT-3.5: In the article, Sonny advises Morgan to believe he did
the right thing by protecting Kiki from a provoking individual.
Sonny reassures Morgan that as long as he continues taking his
medication and stays on the right path, he will be fine.
SSG: Morgan goes to talk to his dad who encourages his son to
know that he did the right thing by protecting Kiki from the guy
who provoked him. They both affirm that Morgan is successfully
fighting his illness and getting his life back on track.

does not solely rely on the previous information, but also on
the modeling of the two information sources.
F. Error Accumulation Analysis
As the text stream gets longer, the errors in the summarization process get accumulated. Hence, we are interested
to see whether the benefits of stepwise summarization will
be diminished as the stream grows. We conduct experiments
to investigate the ROUGE performance on text stream with

IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

(b) 30

30.0
27.5
25.0
22.5
20.0
17.5
15.0

Mean ROUGE Score

DS score

(a) 32.5

(0,5)

(5,10)

(10,15)

DP score

(15,20)

(20,25)

outperformed the state-of-the-art summarization models on our
large-scale stepwise summarization dataset in terms of both
human and automatic metrics. In the near future, we will
employ large language models to enhance the performance
of the stepwise summarization models.

SSG
BART-Split

29
28
27
26
25
24
23
2

3

9

4

Text Stream Length

5

Fig. 4. (a) Influence of previous information (DP score) on summarization
performance (DS score). (b) Error accumulation analysis when the text stream
gets longer.

different lengths, i.e., document-summary pair number, as
shown Figure 4(b). The result shows that the ROUGE score
of SSG increases with the number of input documents to
begin with, which demonstrates that our proposed model is
more and more effective when the text stream begins to grow
larger. It can also be seen that, as the stream gets longer, the
improvement of our model compared with BART-Split is
generally consistent. Regardless of the different lengths of the
text stream, our SSG consistently outperforms BART-Split,
which is a strong baseline that achieves good performance in
all metrics. The above result demonstrates that the previous
summary is always useful, and our model can successfully
utilize it.
G. Efficiency and Scale Analysis
From parameter view, both PEGASUS (223M) and our
model (149M) introduce more parameters compared to the
baseline BART, leading to increased computational resources.
Secondly, a larger model introduces more training time and
inference time. Hence, it takes a bit longer for our model to
decode compared with BART (5s). Finally, the integration of
the GAN mechanism in SSG, despite adding a modest increase
in parameters (3.11M), significantly accelerates network convergence, and does not introduce more inference time.
Based on the findings in Tables VII-D and VI, it is evident
that an increase in the number of parameters leads to improved
model performance. For instance, GPT-3.5, with its larger
parameter scale, achieves a human evaluation rating of 4.03.
At the same time, it is important to note that within the same
parameter range, the design of the model significantly affects
its performance. As an example, our model, which has only 6%
more parameters compared to BART-base, surpasses BART’s
performance by 12%. Similarly, it surpasses PEGASUS by 4%
while having 40% fewer parameters.
VIII. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we have proposed a model named Stepwise
Summary Generator (SSG) which aims to generate summaries
for stream document data. Since previous information is also
important when summarizing a current document, our model
used a previous summary to selectively read the current
document and obtained its polished representation, both were
combined to generate the summary. In addition, a convolutional discriminator was employed to provide a coherence
signal to the generator, so as to enhance the coherence between
the previous summary and the newly generated one. SSG

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their
constructive comments. The work was supported by King
Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST)
through grant awards FCC/1/1976-44-01, FCC/1/1976-4501, REI/1/5234-01-01, RGC/3/4816-01-01, REI/1/5414-01-01,
REI/1/5289-01-01, and REI/1/5404-01-01.
R EFERENCES
[1] Alexios Gidiotis and Grigorios Tsoumakas. A divide-and-conquer
approach to the summarization of long documents. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 2020.
[2] Tao Ge, Lei Cui, Baobao Chang, Sujian Li, Ming Zhou, and Zhifang
Sui. News stream summarization using burst information networks. In
Proc. of EMNLP, 2016.
[3] Hoa Trang Dang and Karolina Owczarzak. Overview of the tac 2008
update summarization task. In TAC, 2008.
[4] Aishwarya Jadhav and Vaibhav Rajan. Extractive summarization with
swap-net: Sentences and words from alternating pointer networks. In
Proc. of ACL, 2018.
[5] Shashi Narayan, Shay B. Cohen, and Mirella Lapata. Ranking sentences
for extractive summarization with reinforcement learning. In Proc. of
AACL, 2018.
[6] Jiacheng Xu, Zhe Gan, Yu Cheng, and Jingjing Liu. Discourse-aware
neural extractive text summarization. In Proc. of ACL, 2020.
[7] Yue Dong, Yikang Shen, Eric Crawford, Herke van Hoof, and Jackie
Chi Kit Cheung. Banditsum: Extractive summarization as a contextual
bandit. In Proc. of EMNLP, 2018.
[8] Ming Zhong, Pengfei Liu, Yiran Chen, Danqing Wang, Xipeng Qiu, and
Xuanjing Huang. Extractive summarization as text matching. In Proc.
of ACL, 2020.
[9] Qingyu Zhou, Nan Yang, Furu Wei, Shaohan Huang, Ming Zhou, and
Tiejun Zhao. A joint sentence scoring and selection framework for
neural extractive document summarization. IEEE/ACM Transactions on
Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 2020.
[10] Jiajun Zhang, Yu Zhou, and Chengqing Zong. Abstractive crosslanguage summarization via translation model enhanced predicate argument structure fusing. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,
and Language Processing, 2016.
[11] Jiajun Zhang, Yang Zhao, Haoran Li, and Chengqing Zong. Attention
with sparsity regularization for neural machine translation and summarization. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language
Processing, 2018.
[12] Asli Celikyilmaz, Antoine Bosselut, Xiaodong He, and Yejin Choi. Deep
communicating agents for abstractive summarization. In Proc. of AACL,
2018.
[13] Kai Wang, Xiaojun Quan, and Rui Wang. Biset: Bi-directional selective
encoding with template for abstractive summarization. In Proc. of ACL,
2019.
[14] Ming-Hsiang Su, Chung-Hsien Wu, and Hao-Tse Cheng. A twostage transformer-based approach for variable-length abstractive summarization. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language
Processing, 2020.
[15] Wan Ting Hsu, Chieh-Kai Lin, Ming-Ying Lee, Kerui Min, Jing Tang,
and Min Sun. A unified model for extractive and abstractive summarization using inconsistency loss. In Proc. of ACL, 2018.
[16] Sebastian Gehrmann, Yuntian Deng, and Alexander M. Rush. Bottomup abstractive summarization. Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, 2018.
[17] Jiatao Gu, Zhengdong Lu, Hang Li, and Victor O. K. Li. Incorporating
copying mechanism in sequence-to-sequence learning. Proceedings of
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2016.
[18] Abigail See, Peter J. Liu, and Christopher D. Manning. Get to the point:
Summarization with pointer-generator networks. In Proc. of ACL, 2017.

IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, MANUSCRIPT

[19] Karl Moritz Hermann, Tomás Kociský, Edward Grefenstette, Lasse
Espeholt, Will Kay, Mustafa Suleyman, and Phil Blunsom. Teaching
machines to read and comprehend. In Proc. of NeurIPS, 2015.
[20] Max Grusky, Mor Naaman, and Yoav Artzi. Newsroom: A dataset of
1.3 million summaries with diverse extractive strategies. In Proc. of
AACL, 2018.
[21] Shashi Narayan, Shay B. Cohen, and Mirella Lapata. Don’t give me the
details, just the summary! topic-aware convolutional neural networks for
extreme summarization. In Proc. of EMNLP, 2018.
[22] Byeongchang Kim, Haengkang Kim, and Gunhee Kim. Abstractive
summarization of reddit posts with multi-level memory networks. In
Proc. of AACL, 2018.
[23] James Allan, Rahul Gupta, and Vikas Khandelwal. Temporal summaries
of news topics. In Proc. of SIGIR, 2001.
[24] Rui Yan, Xiaojun Wan, Jahna Otterbacher, Liang Kong, Xiaoming Li,
and Yan Zhang. Evolutionary timeline summarization: a balanced
optimization framework via iterative substitution. In Proc. of SIGIR,
2011.
[25] Rui Yan, Liang Kong, Congrui Huang, Xiaojun Wan, Xiaoming Li, and
Yan Zhang. Timeline generation through evolutionary trans-temporal
summarization. In Proc. of EMNLP, 2011.
[26] Wayne Xin Zhao, Yanwei Guo, Rui Yan, Yulan He, and Xiaoming Li.
Timeline generation with social attention. In Proc. of SIGIR, 2013.
[27] Xiuying Chen, Zhangming Chan, Shen Gao, Meng-Hsuan Yu, Dongyan
Zhao, and Rui Yan. Learning towards abstractive timeline summarization. In Proc. of IJCAI, 2019.
[28] Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan
Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan. Follow the timeline!
generating an abstractive and extractive timeline summary in chronological order. ACM Transactions on Information Systems, 41(1):1–30,
2023.
[29] Demian Gholipour Ghalandari and Georgiana Ifrim.
Examining
the state-of-the-art in news timeline summarization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.10107, 2020.
[30] Yi Yu, Adam Jatowt, Antoine Doucet, Kazunari Sugiyama, and
Masatoshi Yoshikawa. Multi-timeline summarization (mtls): Improving
timeline summarization by generating multiple summaries. In Proc. of
ACL, 2021.
[31] Lidan Shou, Zhenhua Wang, Ke Chen, and Gang Chen. Sumblr:
continuous summarization of evolving tweet streams. In Proc. of SIGIR,
2013.
[32] Andrei Olariu. Efficient online summarization of microblogging streams.
In Proc. of ACL, 2014.
[33] Zhaochun Ren, Oana Inel, Lora Aroyo, and Maarten De Rijke. Timeaware multi-viewpoint summarization of multilingual social text streams.
In Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, 2016.
[34] Florian Boudin, Marc El-Bèze, and Juan-Manuel Torres-Moreno. A
scalable mmr approach to sentence scoring for multi-document update
summarization. In Proc. of COLING, 2008.
[35] Jean-Yves Delort and Enrique Alfonseca. Dualsum: a topic-model based
approach for update summarization. In Proc. of ACL, 2012.
[36] Maali Mnasri, Gaël de Chalendar, and Olivier Ferret. Taking into
account inter-sentence similarity for update summarization. In IJCNLP,
2017.
[37] Mingda Chen and Kevin Gimpel. Tvrecap: A dataset for generating
stories with character descriptions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.08833,
2021.
[38] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion
Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention
is all you need. In Proc. of NeurIPS, 2017.
[39] Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman Mohamed, Omer Levy, Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer.
Bart: Denoising sequence-to-sequence pre-training for natural language
generation, translation, and comprehension. In Proc. of ACL, 2020.
[40] Xiuying Chen, Shen Gao, Chongyang Tao, Yan Song, Dongyan Zhao,
and Rui Yan. Iterative document representation learning towards
summarization with polishing. Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, 2018.
[41] Ari Holtzman, Jan Buys, Maxwell Forbes, Antoine Bosselut, David
Golub, and Yejin Choi. Learning to write with cooperative discriminators. In Proc. of ACL, 2018.
[42] Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q Weinberger, and Yoav
Artzi. Bertscore: Evaluating text generation with bert. In Proc. of ICLR,
2020.
[43] Amanda Stent, Matthew Marge, and Mohit Singhai. Evaluating evaluation methods for generation in the presence of variation. In CICLing,
2005.

10

[44] Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau. Textrank: Bringing order into text. In
Proc. of EMNLP, 2004.
[45] Dan Gillick and Benoı̂t Favre. A scalable global model for summarization. In ILP 2009, 2009.
[46] Song Xu, Haoran Li, P. Yuan, Youzheng Wu, Xiaodong He, and
Bowen Zhou. Self-attention guided copy mechanism for abstractive
summarization. In Proc. of ACL, 2020.
[47] Jingqing Zhang, Yao Zhao, Mohammad Saleh, and Peter Liu. Pegasus:
Pre-training with extracted gap-sentences for abstractive summarization.
In Proc. of ICML, 2020.
[48] Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic
optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.
[49] Razvan Pascanu, Tomas Mikolov, and Yoshua Bengio. On the difficulty
of training recurrent neural networks. In ICML, 2013.
[50] Yang Liu and Mirella Lapata. Hierarchical transformers for multidocument summarization. In Proc. of ACL, 2019.
[51] James Clarke and Mirella Lapata. Discourse constraints for document
compression. Computational Linguistics, 2010.

