1

Evaluating and Mitigating Bias in AI-Based
Medical Text Generation

arXiv:2504.17279v1 [cs.CL] 24 Apr 2025

Xiuying Chen1∗† , Tairan Wang2∗ , Juexiao Zhou2 , Zirui Song1 , Xin Gao2† , Xiangliang Zhang3,2†
Abstract—Artificial intelligence (AI) systems, particularly those based on deep learning models, have increasingly achieved
expert-level performance in medical applications. However, there is growing concern that such AI systems may reflect and amplify
human bias, and reduce the quality of their performance in historically under-served populations. The fairness issue has attracted
considerable research interest in the medical imaging classification field, yet it remains understudied in the text generation domain. In
this study, we investigate the fairness problem in text generation within the medical field and observe significant performance
discrepancies across different races, sexes, and age groups, including intersectional groups, various model scales, and different
evaluation metrics. To mitigate this fairness issue, we propose an algorithm that selectively optimizes those underperformed groups to
reduce bias. The selection rules take into account not only word-level accuracy but also the pathology accuracy to the target reference,
while ensuring that the entire process remains fully differentiable for effective model training. Our evaluations across multiple
backbones, datasets, and modalities demonstrate that our proposed algorithm enhances fairness in text generation without
compromising overall performance. Specifically, the disparities among various groups across different metrics were diminished by more
than 30% with our algorithm, while the relative change in text generation accuracy was typically within 2%. By reducing the bias
generated by deep learning models, our proposed approach can potentially alleviate concerns about the fairness and reliability of text
generation diagnosis in medical domain. Our code is publicly available to facilitate further research at https://github.com/iriscxy/GenFair.
Index Terms—Healthcare, Fairness, Large language model, Artificial general intelligence

✦

1

I NTRODUCTION

Artificial Intelligence, particularly those based on deep
learning models, has been widely adopted in healthcare,
consistently demonstrating expert-level performance across
various domains, presenting a clear incentive for real-world
deployment due to the global medical expert shortage and
AI algorithms matching specialist performance [1], [2], [3],
[4], [5], [6]. However, the issue of fairness has arisen in
medical image classification tasks, with biases observed in
deep learning models related to race [7], [8], [9], sex [10],
[11], and age [10]. The bias also exists in models trained from
different types of medical data, such as chest X-rays [8], CT
scans [12], and skin dermatology images [13]. For instance,
chest X-ray classifiers trained to predict the presence of
disease systematically underdiagnose black patients [14],
potentially leading to delays in care. A biased decisionmaking system is socially and ethically detrimental, especially in life-changing scenarios such as healthcare [15], [16].
This has motivated a growing body of work to un*Equal contribution.
†Correspondingly authors: xiuying.chen@mbzuai.ac.ae, xin.gao@kaust.edu.sa,
xzhang33@nd.edu
1 Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence
2 King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
3 University of Notre Dame, IN, USA

derstand bias and pursue fairness in image classification
tasks [17], [18], [19], [20]. For example, [10] proposed an
algorithm that leverages the marginal pairwise equal opportunity to reduce bias in medical image classification.
However, the fairness of text generation in medical contexts
remains largely underexplored. This is particularly concerning given the rapid advancements in text generation using
large language models (LLMs) [21], [22], [23]. Valuable applications of text generation in healthcare include generating
detailed radiology report descriptions [24] for more accurate
diagnosis and distilling lengthy medical reports into concise
summaries [25] for quicker decision-making. It also aids in
creating personalized patient education materials [26] and
automating clinical trial protocols [27], enhancing patient
engagement and research efficiency. As these applications
become widely adopted [23], [28], [29], [30], [31], [32], it
is crucial to consider the unfairness problem and bias.
For example, as the real example in Fig. 1 shows, if a
summarization model misses an important cardiomegaly
observation from the doctor’s findings for a male patient,
this can lead to misdiagnosis or delayed treatment, potentially compromising patient care. This raises an important
question: Does unfairness exist in AI-generated medical
text, and if so, how can it be mitigated? Investigating
this problem presents a greater challenge than a typical
classification task, as generation is harder to evaluate, and

impression: Mild interstitial edema. No acute cardiopulmonary process. (1

ed impression: Cardiomegaly without overt pulmonary edema.(2 correct labels)

2

Reference: Cardiomegaly with
pulmonary vascular congestion
without overt pulmonary
edema.

Fig. 1. An example where both male and female have similar input,
yet the text generation model neglects cardiomegaly in the male
case.

In this study, we first evaluate the presence of unfairness
issues in image-based computer-aided diagnosis, text-based
radiology report, and medical paper summarization using
publicly available datasets (Tab. 1). Our evaluation spans
six generation evaluation metrics and three different scale
models, and considers both individual and intersectional
groups across dimensions such as race, sex, and age. We also
propose a metric-aware unfairness indicator to evaluate the
unfairness from different aspects. Our experimental result
shows that the unfairness problem exists against certain
groups. We also find that intersectional subgroups exhibit
compounded biases in text generation, with patients who
belong to two under-served subgroups receiving lowerquality diagnoses and experiencing larger discrepancies. To
address the issue of unfairness, we propose a novel selection
optimization framework. Our first selection criterion relies
on the intuitive cross-entropy loss function, where cases
with higher loss in underrepresented groups are given more
emphasis during the training process. Apart from general
quality considerations, we also want to consider domainspecific fairness enhancements. There are metrics specifically designed for evaluating the accuracy of pathology
concepts in medical text, and we prioritize training on
cases that receive lower medical evaluation scores, thereby
ensuring that the generated text precisely describes pathology terms. We demonstrate that our selective optimization
can significantly mitigate unfairness across various metrics, datasets, and model scales for both individual and
intersectional groups, without compromising the model’s
overall performance. Our approach is not task-specific or
model-specific, and can be applied to various areas of text
generation, potentially effectively reducing bias issues. An
illustration of our model is presented in Fig. 2.

2

E VALUATION PARADIGM

2.1

Evaluation metrics

The evaluation of generated text quality is a complex
and arduous topic, presenting greater challenges than the

MIMIC Dataset

Generation:
• Cardiomegaly without
overt pulmonary edema.

Subgroup
Age
Sex

Race
Split

Task

Reference: Mild cardiomegaly
with mild interstitial
pulmonary edema.

Attribute
<65 yrs
≥ 65 yrs
Male
Female
White
Black
Train
Val
Test

Report Generation
Report Summarization
Subgroup

Age
PubMed Dataset

Missing
Generation:
• Mild interstitial edema.
• No acute
cardiopulmonary process.

TABLE 1
The characteristics of MIMIC-CXR and PubMed dataset for radiology
report generation task, report summarization, and paper
summarization task.

Task

maintaining fairness in the generation process is more difficult than simply outputting classification labels.

Species
Split

Attribute
Adolescent
Young Adult
Middle Aged
Aged
Humans
Animals
Train
Val
Test

Paper Summarization

Total
46,336
55,902
50,273
51,965
64,783
19,568
102,238
800
1,341

Percentage
54.67%
45.32%
49.17%
50.82%
63.36%
19.13%
97.94%
0.76%
1.29%

Input
Images
Text

Output
Text
Text

Total
6,749
2,077
6,749
4,887
19,638
6,906
71,062
6,633
6,635

Percentage
42.29%
13.01%
42.29%
30.62%
68.88%
24.22%
84.26%
7.86%
7.86%

Input
Text

Output
Text

predominantly studied image classification task [33], [34],
[35]. To reasonably compare performance across different
groups, it is crucial to first determine how to evaluate the
quality of the generation. On the one hand, evaluation
metrics based on n-gram overlap are the most commonly
used and straightforward approach to assess text quality.
Previous studies indicate that metrics within this category,
such as ROUGE [36], exhibit a high correlation with human
evaluation results [37]. Other metrics like BERTScore [33],
ACU [38], and QuestEval [39] also demonstrate comparable
performance to ROUGE [40]. Therefore, in this paper, we
choose ROUGE scores as one of the primary evaluation metrics. Another paradigm of metrics is designed for radiology
domains. Here, we use CheXpert scores [41], a common
method in the radiology field [42], [43], [44], to evaluate
generated text. Researchers define 14 chest pathologies as
labels and assess the quality of the generated text by checking how well it detects and classifies these labels. The results

3

Fairness Evaluation

Naive training

Image-to-text
model

Radiology report

Without selection

Age
Batch

Optimize?

Radiology
Word overlap
evaluation

Overall
population

Text-to-text
model
Radiology report
/Paper

Batch

Sex
Report/Paper
summary

Pathology
observation
evaluation

Our proposed
Selective optimization

Race

Fig. 2. Model Pipeline: Our approach involves three tasks: radiology report generation, report summarization, and paper summarization, using
the public benchmark MIMIC-CXR and PubMed datasets. We trained a deep-learning text generation model using our selective optimization
mechanism, which considers two key aspects: word-level overlap and pathology observation. We evaluated pairwise fairness across different
subgroups, including sex, race, and age, to determine if the model is equally fair for all individuals in each subgroup.

are compared to ground truth labels. The labels include No
Finding, Enlarged Cardiomediastinum, Cardiomegaly, Lung
Opacity, Lung Lesion, Edema, Consolidation, Pneumonia,
Atelectasis, Pneumothorax, Pleural Effusion, Pleural Other,
Fracture, and Support Devices. Compared to ROUGE scores,
CheXpert focuses more on the terms describing results of
chest pathologies, rather than taking into account word
overlap without differentiating the general and domainspecific terms.
Since previous work has not investigated the unfairness
problem in text generation, in this study, we also introduce
a Metric-Aware Fairness Difference (MFD) to quantitatively
measure unfairness. Inspired by the ’pairwise fairness difference’ (PFD) [10] in the classification domain, which subtracts the score of the lowest-performing group from the
highest score within subgroups, our MFD adapts this concept for text generation. MFD is metric-aware, calculating a
differential score between subgroups for each specific metric
by subtracting the score of the lowest-performing group
from the highest score within the subgroups. Compared
with PFD, MFD can assess the degree of unfairness from
various perspectives in the generated text. The formal calculation of MFD can be found in Section 5.1.
The justification for using MFD lies in its ability to
capture unfairness across multiple dimensions relevant to
text generation, which is inherently more complex than
classification. In text generation, unfairness can manifest in
subtle ways across various aspects of the generated output,
such as stylistic inconsistencies or biases in content distribution. By providing a granular and metric-specific view of
performance disparities, MFD facilitates a more comprehensive and targeted assessment of fairness in text generation
systems. A large MFD indicates significant disparities across
subgroups, highlighting areas where fairness interventions
are needed.

2.2

Compared models

Our study investigates three tasks: radiology report generation, report summarization, and paper summarization.
For the first task, we selected the specialized model R2Gen
[45], which is tailored for report generation. For the second
task, we used the pre-trained language model BART-large
[46]. For the last task, we utilized both BART-base [46] and
the LLM LLaMA2-13B [47]. Our proposed paradigm is also
applied to and compared with all the above models. In this
way, the sizes of the models we investigated range from
100M to 13B parameters, which provides a comprehensive
investigation of fairness, and also allows us to thoroughly
test our proposed method.
2.3

Datasets

We assessed the proposed and baseline models using
the MIMIC-CXR [48] and PubMed [49] datasets. MIMICCXR [48] is a large public dataset of 377,110 chest Xrays associated with 227,827 free-text radiology report and
summaries presenting to the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center Emergency Department between 2011 and 2016.
With the release of its fourth version [50], the dataset now
includes corresponding patient information. The race and
sex data are self-reported, and age is documented at the time
of a patient’s first admission. We filtered out unpaired cases
and accounted for instances where a single patient may have
multiple X-rays and reports by randomly sampling one from
each set. PubMed [49] is a summarization dataset consisting
of 133,215 full-text papers as documents and their abstracts
as summaries. We collected MeSH labels using the PubMed
API1 , resulting in 29,203 MeSH labels, and the evaluation
is on the cases in test set with MeSH labels. Note that if a
paper discusses both women and men, it is assigned to both
categories.
1. https://www.nlm.nih.gov/databases/download/mesh.html

4

(b)

(a)

(c)

(e)

(d)

Fig. 3. Performance disparities were observed across various categories, including sex (female vs. male), race (black vs. white), age
(young vs. aged), and species (humans vs. animals), for ROUGE comparison in: (a) radiology report generation, (b) summarization on
the CXR dataset, and (c) summarization on the PubMed dataset; and for CheXpert comparison in: (d) radiology report generation and (e)
report summarization. Significant differences, denoted by * (p < 0.05) and ** (p < 0.01), were identified using the two-side Mann-Whitney U test.
Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals.

Supplementary Fig. S1 provides an overview of the data
selection process.

3

U NFAIRNESS IN EXISTING MODELS

3.1 Text generation bias in individual subpopulations
on age, sex, and race
As shown in Fig. 3, we find that the text generation quality
of baseline models for all datasets differs significantly in
most of the considered subpopulations.
Firstly, in Fig. 3(a)(b)(c), we show the performance of
different subgroups under ROUGE metrics across report
generation, report summarization, and paper summarization, respectively. For the first two tasks, it is observed that
all female, young, and black patients receive significantly
higher quality summaries than their male, aged, and white
counterparts. This indicates that the generated text exhibits
a higher word-level overlap with the ground truth reference.
These findings are consistent across both tasks. For the third
task, the analysis includes more granular age comparisons
as well as comparisons between humans and animals. In
the detailed age analysis, we observe that older individuals

generally tend to receive better-performing summaries. Additionally, significant differences are observed when comparing human data to animal data.
Next, in Fig. 3(d)(e), we present the CheXpert scores of
different groups on the first two tasks, which are based
on the radiology domain. It is observed that, in 15 out of
18 settings, female, aged, and white individuals achieve
higher scores. This indicates that these groups receive higher
quality generated results for medical conditions. Detailed
performances are given in Supplementary Tables S1–7.
While the CheXpert score calculates the overlap of
clinical observations between the generated summary and
the reference summary, ROUGE scores consider all words.
Therefore, when we observe that females consistently
achieve higher CheXpert scores and ROUGE scores than
males, we also notice a distinct pattern: the generated text
for young and black groups tends to score higher according
to ROUGE metrics, whereas aged and white individuals
score higher CheXpert scores. This discrepancy indicates
that different metrics highlight different biases in model performance, making the alleviation of unfairness a challenging
task that requires a multifaceted approach.

5

(a)

(b)

(c)

Fig. 4. Performance disparities were observed across intersectional groups in: (a) radiology report generation, and (b)(c) report summarization. The top row represents baseline performance, while the bottom row illustrates the enhanced performance achieved by incorporating our
proposed method. Significant differences, denoted by * (p < 0.05), ** (p < 0.01), and *** (p < 0.001), were identified using the two-side MannWhitney U test. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals.

To offer a more intuitive understanding of the varying
generation qualities, we present a representative example
in Fig. 1, with additional cases detailed in Supplementary
Fig. S1-2. Despite similar inputs, males in these samples
consistently received lower ROUGE and CheXpert scores,
often resulting in missed or incorrect diagnoses. For instance, in the case depicted in Fig. 1, both female and male
cases involve cardiomegaly and edema. Yet, the predicted
impression for females accurately includes these observations, whereas the male prediction fails to acknowledge
the cardiopulmonary condition. It is crucial to emphasize
that the observed biases could result in misdiagnoses or
underdiagnoses for certain groups, potentially exacerbating
existing health disparities. For example, if an AI system
is biased against men or minorities, it might fail to accurately diagnose conditions that are more prevalent or
present differently in these groups, such as cardiovascular
diseases in men or skin conditions in people with darker
skin tones. Addressing biases is crucial to ensure AI systems
are equitable and provide fair, accurate assessments for all
patients, regardless of age, sex, or race.
3.2

Text generation bias in intersectional groups

We next investigate intersectional groups, defined as patients belonging to two subpopulations, e.g., black female
patients. We highlight the subpopulations with the largest
fairness disparities in intersectional groups like sex-race and
sex-age in the first line of Fig. 4, with race-age comparisons
shown in the supplementary Fig. S4. Out of the 16/18 metric
comparisons, significant differences are revealed, indicating
that intersectional subgroups frequently experience notable

biases in text generation. To delve into the degree of bias,
we compare the MFD between intersectional groups and
subgroups in the Supplementary Tab. S9. This comparison
indicates that patients belonging to two underserved subgroups are more likely to receive lower-quality diagnoses
and experience greater discrepancies between groups. For
example, the disparity in CheXpert results between black
males and white females is more pronounced than the
disparities between black and white individuals or between
females and males. Detailed scores of Fig. 4 are in the
Supplementary Tab. S10.
3.3 Why unfairness exists in radiology report generation tasks
While the previous section focused on identifying biases
across different groups, it is equally important to understand why such unfairness exists. By uncovering the underlying causes, we can better address these disparities and
develop more equitable models.
Firstly, we find that the ROUGE score is related to the
target length. The Pearson correlation between the ROUGE
score and the reference length is -0.21 with a p-value of
3.90e-16, indicating a mild correlation where longer references tend to lead to lower ROUGE scores. This is intuitive
because longer texts contain more information that needs to
be generated, making the task more challenging.
Secondly, the CheXpert score is related to the original
positive labels. If a group has more diseases classified as
positive, its CheXpert score tends to be higher, with a correlation of 0.26 and a p-value of 9.79e-24. This indicates that
the model tends to generate text mentioning pathologies

6

rather than plain text without any disease mentions. Meanwhile, we observe that different demographic groups have
varying probabilities of developing certain diseases. For
example, Black patients have a 7% higher likelihood of being
diagnosed with pneumonia compared to White patients.
Related works, such as [51], indicate that hospitals often
provide lower-quality care to Black patients for pneumonia.
This highlights the need to further explore disparities in
disease prevalence and healthcare quality among different
groups, which we leave for future work.
Lastly, the number of training cases is also crucial. The
correlation between different group case numbers and the
ROUGE performance is 0.26 with a p-value of 0.02. This is
also intuitive as a larger number of training cases provides
more data for the model to learn from, leading to better
performance.

P ROPOSED FRAMEWORK MITIGATING THE UN -

FAIRNESS IN MEDICAL TEXT GENERATION

4.1

Our proposed framework

The pipeline of the proposed model is depicted in Fig. 2.
The input images or text are passed into a neural network,
which generates prediction results. The proposed method is
versatile and not confined to specific deep-learning models.
Generally speaking, vanilla generation models are
trained by considering all cases in a batch, processing them
sequentially using cross-entropy loss to predict words one

Cross
Entropy Loss

Ranking Loss

P1>…>PN?

Generation
Probability

(Encoder)

Integrated
Loss

Decoder

Decoder

Input

Reference Candidate1

Dec
ode
r

Integrated
Loss

……

/
Batch

Integrated
Loss

…

4

(1)

Here, LCE (Bi ) denotes the cross entropy loss of case Bi , and
∗
Bselected
represents the subset of cases selected for backpropagation based on their higher loss values.

…

In summary, these factors contribute to an unstable and
imbalanced performance across different groups, making
the alleviation of these disparities a challenging task.

∗
Bselected
= Top γ{Bi ∈ B | LCE (Bi )}.

…

It is important to note that a group’s final performance
is determined by multiple factors combined. Sometimes,
one factor may outweigh the others. For example, target
text length is a decisive factor for ROUGE performance.
However, in some cases, multiple factors work together to
yield the final comparative outcomes. For instance, aged
individuals have fewer training cases compared with young
individuals (45% compared to 54%), more observation labels (5.13 compared to 5.01), and longer texts (62.89 words
compared to 60.23 words). The longer text factor and fewer
training samples lead to worse ROUGE performance, but
having more labels results in a higher CheXpert score. Due
to the complexity of these distributions, achieving balance
with a simple adjustment of one factor is challenging. To validate this, we performed an oversampling study, detailed in
Supplementary Table S11, where we increased the number
of male cases to match that of female cases. However, the
performance imbalance persisted, indicating that addressing such disparities requires more nuanced approaches.

by one. In this context, we denote the cases within a batch
as Bi , where i represents the index number of the case.
In our approach, we introduce two novel paradigms for
selecting cases for backpropagation, rather than using all
cases. Our first selection criterion is simple and intuitive:
we prioritize cases that exhibit a larger cross-entropy loss.
Formally, this can be expressed as:

CandidateN

Imbalanced
Performance

Selection

Fig. 5. The details of the selection algorithm. The encoder-decoder or
decoder-only model outputs the generation probability for the reference
as well as a set of candidates. The ranking loss evaluates if the model
assigns a greater generation probability to candidates of higher quality
compared to those of lower quality. Cases with a high sum of crossentropy loss and ranking loss are selected for optimization.

The cross-entropy criterion emphasizes word-level accuracy. However, given our focus on medical applications,
we also want to underscore the significance of accurately
detecting pathology observations. To address this, as depicted in Fig. 5, we modify the model to not only provide a
prediction score for the ground truth reference but also for a
set of reference candidates. These candidates are generated
by base models such as R2Gen, which are predefined and
sorted according to their ROUGE and CheXpert scores,
covering a range of quality levels.
The model then learns a ranking function that assigns
higher prediction scores to candidates of higher quality. To
achieve this, we employ a ranking loss that penalizes the
model when it fails to rank high-quality candidates above
lower-quality ones. The ranking loss is defined as follows:

LRanking =

n−1
X

max (0, ∆i − score(Ci ) + score(Ci+1 )) , (2)

i=1

where LRanking is the ranking loss, n is the number of
candidates, ∆i is the allowed margin between the scores
of the i-th candidate Ci and the (i + 1)-th candidate Ci+1 ,
and score(Ci ) is the model’s prediction score for the i-th
candidate. The loss function encourages the model to learn
that the score of the i-th candidate should be at least ∆i

7

higher than the score of the (i + 1)-th candidate. If the
model’s predictions do not meet this criterion, the loss is
non-zero and the model is penalized.
In essence, for cases where the candidates are not ranked
correctly, it indicates that the input case is more challenging
and the model does not fully comprehend the input. Therefore, by integrating the ranking loss with the generation loss,
we select the cases for training as follows:
∗
Bselected
= Top γ{Bi ∈ B | LCE (Bi ) + LRanking (Bi )}.

(3)

This combined approach ensures that the model is trained
not only to generate accurate words but also maintain
pathology accuracy, thereby improving the overall quality
of the generated text.
4.2

Alleviating unfairness in subpopulations

When equipping the baseline models with our proposed
selective optimization, we find that our model is effective
in reducing disparities across all datasets with respect to
age, sex, and race.
In Fig. 6(a)(b), we present the MFD score for radiology
report generation and report summarization, respectively.
Across almost all metrics and tasks, the MFD scores of our
model are significantly smaller than those of the baseline
model, with the average MFD reduced by 35.27%. For
the comparisons where the original discrepancy between
groups is large, such as the female and male comparison, our model is particularly effective in alleviating bias.
Moreover, although the discrepancies for different metrics vary—for example, black people have higher ROUGE
scores but lower CheXpert scores compared with white
people—our method is consistently useful for alleviating
bias in these different metrics that measure different aspects.
This suggests that to improve fairness in other evaluation
metrics, one can still adopt our framework. In Fig. 6(c), we
demonstrate that our method is also effective in alleviating
bias not only between human groups but also across different species.
While addressing bias, it is also crucial to maintain
the quality of the original generated text. Otherwise, it
would also bring harm if the performance of both groups
significantly declines in the pursuit of fairness. In Fig. 7, we
present a comparison between the original performance and
the performance of our method. We also conduct the same
significant test as before. As can be seen, for most of the
time there is no significant performance drop between the
two. Moreover, our method achieves better and more stable
performance in some cases; for example, our method attains
higher ROUGE scores, precision, and F1 scores on the radiology report generation task across male, aged, and white
groups, with a smaller 95% error bar. This demonstrates that

achieving fairness can also enhance the overall performance
and robustness of the model. Details for the figures, overall
performances, and comparison with baselines and other
groups are given in Supplementary Tables S1–8 and Fig. S5.
4.3

Alleviating unfairness in intersectional groups

We also explore the effectiveness of our method for intersectional groups, as shown in Fig. 4. We highlight the subpopulations with the largest fairness disparities in intersectional
groups like sex-race and sex-age as shown in the three lower
charts of the image, with race-age comparisons shown in
the supplementary Fig. S4. As observed, there is no longer a
significant difference between comparisons in most metrics.
Our method even achieves superior performance, for example, on all three CheXpert metrics in the report generation
task. This suggests that our method, by maintaining balance,
can indeed enhance the treatment received by intersectional
groups, ensuring they benefit from improved outcomes.
Details of Fig. 4 are in the Supplementary Tab. S10.
4.4

Promoting fairness of LLMs generation

In the previous experiments, we demonstrated the effectiveness of our proposed method across different model
scales, from BERT-sized R2Gen to BART-large. In the era
of LLMs, it is natural to wonder whether biases also exist
within these models and whether selective optimization can
be effectively applied to these larger models. Herein, we
choose Llama2-13B as our testbed.
In Fig. 8, we show (a) the original performance with
significant differences, (b) the significant reduction in MFD
using our method compared to the original MFD, and (c) the
performance of three text generation metrics for the original
and our method. It is evident that significant performance
disparities persist across various groups within LLMs, and
our method continues to demonstrate effectiveness on models with billions of parameters, enhancing fairness while
maintaining overall performance. The full performance can
be found in Supplementary Fig. S6 and Tab.S8.
The above results also show that unfairness in text generation is a common phenomenon even for LLMs trained on
larger corpora. This underscores the importance of addressing biases to ensure fairness across different groups.

5

M ETHODS

5.1

Evaluation metrics

We employ two types of evaluation metrics. The first is a set
of traditional text generation metrics: ROUGE-1, ROUGE-2,
and ROUGE-L, which respectively measure the matches of
unigrams, bigrams, and the longest common subsequence.

8

(a)

(b)

(c)

Fig. 6. Our proposed method significantly reduced the Metric-aware Fairness Difference (MFD) across various pairwise comparisons,
such as female vs. male, as shown (a) radiology report generation, (b) report summarization, and (c) scholar paper summarization.
Significant differences, denoted by * (p < 0.05), ** (p < 0.01), and *** (p < 0.001), were identified using the one-side Mann-Whitney U test.

These metrics directly reflect the similarity between the
generated text and the ground truth summary.
P
ROUGE-1 =

S∈References

P

P

unigram∈S Countmatch (unigram)

S∈References

P

unigram∈S Count(unigram)

,

(4)
P
ROUGE-2 =

S∈References

From a fairness perspective, we introduce a Metricaware Fairness Difference (MFD) metric, which computes
the average absolute difference between two subgroups.
Formally, MFD is defined as follows:

P

P

S∈References

bigram∈S Countmatch (bigram)

P

bigram∈S Count(bigram)

,

(5)
ROUGE-L = Fscore =
where

outperform at least two of the three radiologists in detecting four clinically relevant pathologies, demonstrating its
capability in evaluating the accuracy of text.

(1 + β 2 ) · RLCS · PLCS
,
RLCS + β 2 · PLCS

(6)

RLCS =

LCS(X, Y )
,
length of reference

(7)

PLCS =

LCS(X, Y )
.
length of candidate

(8)

Additionally, we incorporate a specially designed metric,
the CheXpert precision, recall, and F1 scores [41], which
automatically detect the presence of 14 observations in
radiology reports, capturing the uncertainties inherent in
radiograph interpretation. This metric has been shown to

n

MFD =

1X
|Metricsubgroup1 (i) − Metricsubgroup2 (i)|
n i=1

(9)

Here, n represents the number of instances, and
Metricsubgroup1 (i) and Metricsubgroup2 (i) denote the metric
values for the i-th instance in subgroup 1 and subgroup 2,
respectively. Being metric-aware, MFD is adept at capturing
the actual disparities among various groups based on the
inherent attributes of the metric itself, such as word-level
accuracy or symptom detection accuracy. This allows for
a nuanced understanding of fairness in the context of the
specific task at hand.
The Mann-Whitney U test is a non-parametric statistical
test used to determine whether there is a significant difference between two independent groups. A smaller p-value
indicates a significant difference, and better performance

9

(a)

(b)

(c)

Fig. 7. Our proposed method maintains overall performance across different tasks: (a) radiology report generation, (b) report summarization, and (c) scholar paper summarization. Significant differences denoted by asterisks (*), were determined using the two-side Mann-Whitney
U test. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals.

(a)
(a)

(b)

(c)

Fig. 8. (a) Significant performance differences were observed for the LLM Llama2-13B. (b) Our method significantly reduced the MFD for
Llama2. (c) Our method does not adversely affect the overall performance of the Llama2.

is determined by comparing the metric values of interest
between the groups.
5.2

Experimental settings

(a) conducted our experiments using (b)
We
Huggingface [52] on
NVIDIA A100 GPUs. For the R2Gen [45] model, we employed a ResNet [53] pretrained on ImageNet [54] as the
visual extractor to extract patch features, with each feature
having a dimension of 2,048. For the relational memory, we
set the dimension to 512, the number of heads in multihead attention to 8, and the number of memory slots to 3
by default. The model was trained using cross-entropy loss
with the ADAM optimizer [55]. We set the learning rate to

5e-5 for the visual extractor and 1e-4 for other parameters.
We decayed this rate by a factor of 0.8 per epoch for each
dataset and set the beam size to 3 to balance generation
effectiveness and efficiency.
For the BART (c)model (facebook/bart-base and
facebook/bart-large)
[46],
we
adhered
to
their
hyperparameter settings as they yielded better performance.
We used the Adam optimizer with ϵ set to 1e-8 and β set
to (0.9, 0.999). The learning rate was set to 3e-5, with a
warm-up of 500 steps. The batch size was set to 8, with 4
gradient accumulation steps.
For finetuning the LLM Llama2-13B, we used LoRA,
which reduced the number of trainable parameters by learn-

10

ing pairs of rank-decomposition matrices while freezing
the original weights. Specifically, we applied LoRA to the
query projection layer and value projection layer to enhance
the model’s adaptability without significantly altering its
structure. Additionally, we set the per-device training batch
size to 16, utilized gradient accumulation with a step count
of 1 to simulate larger batch sizes, and employed a cosine
learning rate scheduler to optimize the learning rate adaptively throughout the training process.
We also include an ablation study in Supplementary
Table S12, where we remove the cross-entropy-based selection and the ranking-loss-based selection, respectively. The
results demonstrate the effectiveness of both components in
alleviating bias. All experiments in this paper were repeated
at least five times following [10]. The average performance
with 95% confidence intervals is reported for each evaluation.
Data availability: The MIMIC-CXR dataset used in this
study is available in the PhysioNet database https://
www.physionet.org/content/mimic-cxr-jpg/. The PubMed
dataset is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/
ccdv/pubmed-summarization. All data supporting the
findings described in this manuscript are available in the
article and in the Supplementary Information and from the
corresponding author upon request. All source datasets are
public datasets that can be accessed based on the links in
this paper. Source data are provided with this paper.
Code availability: The code is publicly available at https:
//github.com/iriscxy/GenFair.
Inclusion & Ethics : In this study, we emphasize inclusivity
and ethical responsibility in developing AI-driven text generation models for medical applications. Recognizing the
risks of AI systems reflecting and amplifying societal biases,
particularly in healthcare, we focused on addressing performance disparities across diverse demographic groups, including different races, sexes, and age groups. Our proposed
algorithm specifically targets underperforming groups to
reduce bias, ensuring that our models serve all populations
equitably. We adhere to principles of fairness, transparency,
and accountability, using only anonymized and publicly
available data in compliance with privacy regulations. By
making our code publicly accessible, we invite the broader
research community to collaborate in enhancing the fairness
and reliability of AI in healthcare.

R EFERENCES
[1]

F. Jiang, Y. Jiang, H. Zhi, Y. Dong, H. Li, S. Ma, Y. Wang, Q. Dong,
H. Shen, and Y. Wang, “Artificial intelligence in healthcare: past,
present and future,” Stroke and vascular neurology, vol. 2, no. 4,
2017.

[2]

P. Rajpurkar, J. Irvin, K. Zhu, B. Yang, H. Mehta, T. Duan, D. Ding,
A. Bagul, C. Langlotz, K. Shpanskaya et al., “Chexnet: Radiologistlevel pneumonia detection on chest x-rays with deep learning,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.05225, 2017.
[3] M. Lin, B. Hou, L. Liu, M. Gordon, M. Kass, F. Wang, S. H.
Van Tassel, and Y. Peng, “Automated diagnosing primary openangle glaucoma from fundus image by simulating human’s grading with deep learning,” Scientific reports, vol. 12, no. 1, p. 14080,
2022.
[4] A. Rimmer, “Radiologist shortage leaves patient care at risk, warns
royal college,” BMJ: British Medical Journal (Online), vol. 359, 2017.
[5] X. Chen, T. Wang, T. Guo, K. Guo, J. Zhou, H. Li, M. Zhuge,
J. Schmidhuber, X. Gao, and X. Zhang, “Scholarchemqa: Unveiling
the power of language models in chemical research question
answering,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.16931, 2024.
[6] T. Wang, J. Hu, R. Ouyang, Y. Wang, Y. Huang, S. Hu, and W.-X. Li,
“Nature of metal-support interaction for metal catalysts on oxide
supports,” Science, vol. 386, no. 6724, pp. 915–920, 2024.
[7] Z. Obermeyer, B. Powers, C. Vogeli, and S. Mullainathan, “Dissecting racial bias in an algorithm used to manage the health of
populations,” Science, vol. 366, no. 6464, pp. 447–453, 2019.
[8] L. Seyyed-Kalantari, G. Liu, M. McDermott, I. Y. Chen, and
M. Ghassemi, “Chexclusion: Fairness gaps in deep chest x-ray
classifiers,” in BIOCOMPUTING 2021: proceedings of the Pacific
symposium. World Scientific, 2020, pp. 232–243.
[9] Y. Zong, Y. Yang, and T. Hospedales, “Medfair: Benchmarking fairness for medical imaging,” in The Eleventh International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2022.
[10] M. Lin, T. Li, Y. Yang, G. Holste, Y. Ding, S. H. Van Tassel, K. Kovacs, G. Shih, Z. Wang, Z. Lu et al., “Improving model fairness in
image-based computer-aided diagnosis,” Nature Communications,
vol. 14, no. 1, p. 6261, 2023.
[11] A. J. Larrazabal, N. Nieto, V. Peterson, D. H. Milone, and E. Ferrante, “Gender imbalance in medical imaging datasets produces
biased classifiers for computer-aided diagnosis,” Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences, vol. 117, no. 23, pp. 12 592–12 594,
2020.
[12] Y. Zhou, S.-C. Huang, J. A. Fries, A. Youssef, T. J. Amrhein,
M. Chang, I. Banerjee, D. Rubin, L. Xing, N. Shah et al., “Radfusion: Benchmarking performance and fairness for multimodal
pulmonary embolism detection from ct and ehr,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2111.11665, 2021.
[13] N. M. Kinyanjui, T. Odonga, C. Cintas, N. C. Codella, R. Panda,
P. Sattigeri, and K. R. Varshney, “Fairness of classifiers across skin
tones in dermatology,” in International Conference on Medical Image
Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention. Springer, 2020, pp.
320–329.
[14] M. Lin, Y. Xiao, B. Hou, T. Wanyan, M. M. Sharma, Z. Wang,
F. Wang, S. Van Tassel, and Y. Peng, “Evaluate underdiagnosis and
overdiagnosis bias of deep learning model on primary open-angle
glaucoma diagnosis in under-served populations,” AMIA Summits
on Translational Science Proceedings, vol. 2023, p. 370, 2023.
[15] S. I. Saarni, B. Hofmann, K. Lampe, D. Lühmann, M. Mäkelä,
M. Velasco-Garrido, and I. Autti-Rämö, “Ethical analysis to improve decision-making on health technologies,” Bulletin of the
World Health Organization, vol. 86, pp. 617–623, 2008.
[16] T. Grote and P. Berens, “On the ethics of algorithmic decisionmaking in healthcare,” Journal of medical ethics, vol. 46, no. 3, pp.
205–211, 2020.
[17] H. Zhang, N. Dullerud, K. Roth, L. Oakden-Rayner, S. Pfohl, and
M. Ghassemi, “Improving the fairness of chest x-ray classifiers,”
in Conference on health, inference, and learning. PMLR, 2022, pp.
204–233.
[18] P. Lahoti, A. Beutel, J. Chen, K. Lee, F. Prost, N. Thain, X. Wang,
and E. Chi, “Fairness without demographics through adversarially

11

reweighted learning,” Advances in neural information processing
systems, vol. 33, pp. 728–740, 2020.
[19] H. Narasimhan, A. Cotter, M. Gupta, and S. Wang, “Pairwise
fairness for ranking and regression,” in Proceedings of the AAAI
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 34, no. 04, 2020, pp. 5248–
5255.
[20] Y. Yang, H. Zhang, J. W. Gichoya, D. Katabi, and M. Ghassemi,
“The limits of fair medical imaging ai in real-world generalization,” Nature Medicine, pp. 1–11, 2024.
[21] Q. Chen, H. Sun, H. Liu, Y. Jiang, T. Ran, X. Jin, X. Xiao, Z. Lin,
H. Chen, and Z. Niu, “An extensive benchmark study on biomedical text generation and mining with chatgpt,” Bioinformatics,
vol. 39, no. 9, p. btad557, 2023.
[22] J. Li, A. Dada, B. Puladi, J. Kleesiek, and J. Egger, “Chatgpt in
healthcare: a taxonomy and systematic review,” Computer Methods
and Programs in Biomedicine, p. 108013, 2024.
[23] S. Tian, Q. Jin, L. Yeganova, P.-T. Lai, Q. Zhu, X. Chen, Y. Yang,
Q. Chen, W. Kim, D. C. Comeau et al., “Opportunities and challenges for chatgpt and large language models in biomedicine and
health,” Briefings in Bioinformatics, vol. 25, no. 1, p. bbad493, 2024.
[24] T. Tanida, P. Müller, G. Kaissis, and D. Rueckert, “Interactive
and explainable region-guided radiology report generation,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, 2023, pp. 7433–7442.
[25] D. Van Veen, C. Van Uden, M. Attias, A. Pareek, C. Bluethgen,
M. Polacin, W. Chiu, J.-B. Delbrouck, J. Z. Chaves, C. Langlotz
et al., “Radadapt: Radiology report summarization via lightweight
domain adaptation of large language models,” in The 22nd Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing and BioNLP Shared
Tasks, 2023, pp. 449–460.
[26] M. Karabacak, B. B. Ozkara, K. Margetis, M. Wintermark, and
S. Bisdas, “The advent of generative language models in medical
education,” JMIR Medical Education, vol. 9, p. e48163, 2023.
[27] V. Subbiah, “The next generation of evidence-based medicine,”
Nature medicine, vol. 29, no. 1, pp. 49–58, 2023.
[28] L. Weidinger, J. Mellor, M. Rauh, C. Griffin, J. Uesato, P.-S. Huang,
M. Cheng, M. Glaese, B. Balle, A. Kasirzadeh et al., “Ethical
and social risks of harm from language models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.04359, 2021.
[29] A. S. Miner, A. Milstein, S. Schueller, R. Hegde, C. Mangurian, and
E. Linos, “Smartphone-based conversational agents and responses
to questions about mental health, interpersonal violence, and
physical health,” JAMA internal medicine, vol. 176, no. 5, pp. 619–
625, 2016.
[30] T. W. Bickmore, H. Trinh, S. Olafsson, T. K. O’Leary, R. Asadi,
N. M. Rickles, and R. Cruz, “Patient and consumer safety risks
when using conversational assistants for medical information: an
observational study of siri, alexa, and google assistant,” Journal of
medical Internet research, vol. 20, no. 9, p. e11510, 2018.
[31] P. Sloan, P. Clatworthy, E. Simpson, and M. Mirmehdi, “Automated radiology report generation: A review of recent advances,”
IEEE Reviews in Biomedical Engineering, 2024.
[32] T. Pang, P. Li, and L. Zhao, “A survey on automatic generation
of medical imaging reports based on deep learning,” BioMedical
Engineering OnLine, vol. 22, no. 1, p. 48, 2023.
[33] T. Zhang, V. Kishore, F. Wu, K. Q. Weinberger, and Y. Artzi,
“Bertscore: Evaluating text generation with bert,” in Proc. of ICLR,
2020.
[34] A. Celikyilmaz, E. Clark, and J. Gao, “Evaluation of text generation: A survey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.14799, 2020.
[35] J. Fu, S.-K. Ng, Z. Jiang, and P. Liu, “Gptscore: Evaluate as you
desire,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04166, 2023.
[36] C.-Y. Lin, “Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries,” in Text summarization branches out, 2004.

[37] X. Chen, M. Li, S. Gao, X. Cheng, Q. Zhu, R. Yan, X. Gao, and
X. Zhang, “Flexible and adaptable summarization via expertise
separation,” in Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR
Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval,
2024, pp. 2018–2027.
[38] Y. Liu, A. R. Fabbri, P. Liu, Y. Zhao, L. Nan, R. Han, S. Han,
S. R. Joty, C.-S. Wu, C. Xiong, and D. R. Radev, “Revisiting the
gold standard: Grounding summarization evaluation with robust
human evaluation,” Proc. of ACL, 2023.
[39] T. Scialom, P.-A. Dray, S. Lamprier, B. Piwowarski, J. Staiano,
A. Wang, and P. Gallinari, “Questeval: Summarization asks for
fact-based evaluation,” in Proc. of EMNLP, 2021.
[40] X. Chen, T. Wang, Q. Zhu, T. Guo, S. Gao, Z. Lu, X. Gao,
and X. Zhang, “Rethinking scientific summarization evaluation:
Grounding explainable metrics on facet-aware benchmark,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2402.14359, 2024.
[41] J. Irvin, P. Rajpurkar, M. Ko, Y. Yu, S. Ciurea-Ilcus, C. Chute,
H. Marklund, B. Haghgoo, R. Ball, K. Shpanskaya et al., “Chexpert:
A large chest radiograph dataset with uncertainty labels and expert comparison,” in Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial
intelligence, vol. 33, no. 01, 2019, pp. 590–597.
[42] X. Wang, F. Wang, Y. Li, Q. Ma, S. Wang, B. Jiang, C. Li, and
J. Tang, “Cxpmrg-bench: Pre-training and benchmarking for x-ray
medical report generation on chexpert plus dataset,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.00379, 2024.
[43] M. Endo, R. Krishnan, V. Krishna, A. Y. Ng, and P. Rajpurkar,
“Retrieval-based chest x-ray report generation using a pre-trained
contrastive language-image model,” in Machine Learning for Health.
PMLR, 2021, pp. 209–219.
[44] W. Boag, T.-M. H. Hsu, M. McDermott, G. Berner, E. Alesentzer,
and P. Szolovits, “Baselines for chest x-ray report generation,” in
Machine learning for health workshop. PMLR, 2020, pp. 126–140.
[45] Z. Chen, Y. Song, T.-H. Chang, and X. Wan, “Generating radiology
reports via memory-driven transformer,” in Proceedings of the 2020
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP), 2020, pp. 1439–1449.
[46] M. Lewis, Y. Liu, N. Goyal, M. Ghazvininejad, A. Mohamed,
O. Levy, V. Stoyanov, and L. Zettlemoyer, “Bart: Denoising
sequence-to-sequence pre-training for natural language generation, translation, and comprehension,” in Proc. of ACL, 2020.
[47] H. Touvron, L. Martin, K. Stone, P. Albert, A. Almahairi, Y. Babaei,
N. Bashlykov, S. Batra, P. Bhargava, S. Bhosale et al., “Llama
2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.09288, 2023.
[48] A. E. Johnson, T. J. Pollard, N. R. Greenbaum, M. P. Lungren, C.-y.
Deng, Y. Peng, Z. Lu, R. G. Mark, S. J. Berkowitz, and S. Horng,
“Mimic-cxr-jpg, a large publicly available database of labeled chest
radiographs,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.07042, 2019.
[49] A. Cohan, F. Dernoncourt, D. S. Kim, T. Bui, S. Kim, W. Chang,
and N. Goharian, “A discourse-aware attention model for abstractive summarization of long documents,” in Proceedings of the
2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2
(Short Papers), 2018, pp. 615–621.
[50] A. Johnson, L. Bulgarelli, T. Pollard, S. Horng, L. A. Celi, and
R. Mark, “Mimic-iv,” PhysioNet. Available online at: https://physionet.
org/content/mimiciv/1.0/(accessed August 23, 2021), pp. 49–55, 2020.
[51] F. B. Mayr, S. Yende, G. D’Angelo, A. E. Barnato, J. A. Kellum,
L. Weissfeld, D. M. Yealy, M. C. Reade, E. B. Milbrandt, and
D. C. Angus, “Do hospitals provide lower quality of care to black
patients for pneumonia?” Critical care medicine, vol. 38, no. 3, pp.
759–765, 2010.
[52] T. Wolf, L. Debut, V. Sanh, J. Chaumond, C. Delangue, A. Moi,
P. Cistac, T. Rault, R. Louf, M. Funtowicz et al., “Transformers:

12

State-of-the-art natural language processing,” in Proc. of EMNLP,
2020.
[53] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning for
image recognition,” in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition, 2016, pp. 770–778.
[54] J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei, “Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database,” in 2009 IEEE
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. Ieee, 2009, pp.
248–255.
[55] D. P. Kingma and J. Ba, “Adam: A method for stochastic optimization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.

