arXiv:2301.00867v1 [cs.CL] 2 Jan 2023

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary
in Chronological Order
XIUYING CHEN∗ , Computational Bioscience Reseach Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
MINGZHE LI∗ , Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University
SHEN GAO, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University
ZHANGMING CHAN, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University
DONGYAN ZHAO, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University
XIN GAO, Computational Bioscience Reseach Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
XIANGLIANG ZHANG, 1 University of Notre Dame; 2 King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
RUI YAN† , Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence, Renmin University of China
Nowadays, time-stamped web documents related to a general news query floods spread throughout the Internet, and timeline
summarization targets concisely summarizing the evolution trajectory of events along the timeline. Unlike traditional document
summarization, timeline summarization needs to model the time series information of the input events and summarize important
events in chronological order. To tackle this challenge, in this paper, we propose a Unified Timeline Summarizer (UTS) that can generate
abstractive and extractive timeline summaries in time order. Concretely, in the encoder part, we propose a graph-based event encoder
that relates multiple events according to their content dependency and learns a global representation of each event. In the decoder
part, to ensure the chronological order of the abstractive summary, we propose to extract the feature of event-level attention in
its generation process with sequential information remained and use it to simulate the evolutionary attention of the ground truth
summary. The event-level attention can also be used to assist in extracting summary, where the extracted summary also comes in
time sequence. We augment the previous Chinese large-scale timeline summarization dataset and collect a new English timeline
dataset. Extensive experiments conducted on these datasets and on the out-of-domain Timeline 17 dataset show that UTS achieves
state-of-the-art performance in terms of both automatic and human evaluations1 .
CCS Concepts: • Information retrieval → Summarization.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Timeline Summarization, Extractive Summarization, Abstractive Summarization
∗ Equal contribution. Ordering is decided by a coin flip.
† Corresponding Author: Rui Yan (ruiyan@ruc.edu.cn)
1 https://github.com/iriscxy/Unified-Timeline-Summarizer

Authors’ addresses: Xiuying Chen, Computational Bioscience Reseach Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, xiuying.chen@kaust.
edu.sa; Mingzhe Li, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University, li_mingzhe@pku.edu.cn; Shen Gao, Wangxuan Institute of Computer
Technology, Peking University, shengao@pku.edu.cn; Zhangming Chan, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University, zhangming.
chan@pku.edu.cn; Dongyan Zhao, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University, zhaody@pku.edu.cn; Xin Gao, Computational
Bioscience Reseach Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, xin.gao@kaust.edu.sa; Xiangliang Zhang, 1 University of Notre Dame; 2
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, xzhang33@nd.edu; Rui Yan, Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence, Renmin University of China,
ruiyan@ruc.edu.cn.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to
redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2022 Association for Computing Machinery.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Manuscript submitted to ACM

1

2 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
ACM Reference Format:
Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan. 2022. Follow the
Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order. ACM Transactions on Information Systems
1, 1, Article 1 (January 2022), 30 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3517221

1

INTRODUCTION

The rapid growth of World Wide Web means that time-stamped document floods spread throughout the Internet.
General search engines simply return web pages ranked by query relevance, but they are not quite capable of handling
ambiguous intentioned queries, such as a query about evolving news “COVID-19”. People may have a myriad of general
interests about the beginning, the evolution, or the most up-to-date situation, while simply ranking the returned
webpages according to their relevance is insufficient. In many cases, readers are tired of navigating every document
in the overwhelming collection: they want to monitor the evolution trajectory of hot topics by simply browsing.
Summarization is an ideal solution to provide a condensed, informative document reorganization for a faster and
better representation of news evolution. Timeline summary temporally summarizes evolutionary news as a series of
individual but correlated component summaries and hence offers an option to understand the big picture of a developing
situation [75].
Existing timeline summarization approaches such as [34, 53, 75] are all based on extraction methods. However, these
methods rely on human-engineered features and sophisticated abilities that are crucial to high-quality summarization,
such as paraphrasing, generalization, or the incorporation of real-world knowledge, which are possible only in an
abstractive framework. Recently, with the emergence of strong generative neural models for text [4], abstractive
techniques are also becoming increasingly popular. Hence, we propose the abstractive timeline summarization task in
our early work [10], which aims to concisely paraphrase the event information in the input article. An example case
is shown in Table 1, where the article consists of events of a great entertainer in different periods, and the summary
correctly summarizes the important events from the input article in order.
Abstractive summarization approaches including [24, 28, 56, 80] have been proven to be useful in traditional
summarization task. However, unlike traditional document summarization, the timeline summarization dataset consists
of a series of time-stamped events, and it is crucial for the timeline summarization model to capture this time series
information to better guide the chronological summary generation process. Besides, the fidelity problem is also of vital
importance for timeline summarization, where mixing the information of different events leads to a bad summary. Take
the example in Table 1 for example, the bad summary confuses the birthplace and the residence, the first album, and
the best-selling album of the celebrity. Herein, the good summary is the ground truth summary from our dataset, and
the bad summary is a wrong summary with typical errors we found in a preliminary experiment. As we found in the
experiment, such infidelity phenomena is a commonly-faced problem in summarization tasks.
To tackle the above challenges, in our previous work [10], we come up with a Memory-based Timeline Summarization
(MTS) model. Specifically, we first use an event embedding module with selective reading units to embed all events.
Then, we propose a key-value memory module storing time-series information to guide the summary generation
process. Concretely speaking, the key in the memory module is the time position embedding that represents the time
series information, and the values are the corresponding event representations. The value item includes local and global
representation, where local value is the output from the event embedding module, and global value is taken from the
average local representation. Keys together form a timeline and we use the time position of events on the timeline to
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

Events

3

Michael Jackson (dubbed as “King of Pop”) was born on August 29, 1958 in Gary, Indiana. He is
the seventh child in his family.
In 1971, Jackson released his first solo “got to be there”, marking the beginning of his solo
career.
In late 1982, Jackson’s sixth album, “Thriller”, was released, where videos "Beat It", "Billie Jean"
in it are credited with breaking racial barriers and transforming the medium into an art form
and promotional tool.
In March 1988, Jackson built a new home named Neverland Ranch in California, where more
than 100 arcade machines were stored here.
In 2000, Guinness World Records recognized him for supporting 39 charities and donated more
than 300 million dollars to charities in his own name, more than any other entertainer.

Bad summary

Michael Jackson was born on August 29, 1958 in Gary, California. In 1971, his first album
“Thriller” was released. In 2000, Guinness World Records recognized him for supporting 39
charities.

Good summary

Michael Jackson was born on August 29, 1958 in Gary, Indiana. His sixth album “Thriller” was
released in 1982. In 2000, Guinness World Records recognized him for supporting 39 charities.

Table 1. Example of timeline summarization. The text in pink demonstrates time stamp, and text in blue demonstrates wrong event
description. Events are split by lines.

guide the generation process. Finally, in each decoding step, we introduce event-level attention and use it to determine
word-level attention to avoid confusion between events.
In MTS, the time information is captured in an implicit and indirect way. MTS stores the time position embedded in
the memory and hopes the decoder will learn to attend to the correct time position in the training process. However, that
strategy is rather weak supervision, where it is hard to verify and ensure the decoder indeed captures the time-sequential
information. In this work, we take one step further and improve our previously proposed MTS framework with explicit
timeline guidance modeling. In other words, we carefully design a strategy that lets the time information be a clear
guidance signal for the summarization process.
Overall, in this paper, we propose a novel Unified Timeline Summarizer (UTS) that can generate abstractive and
extractive timeline summaries in time order. For the abstractive part, concretely, in the encoder part, we first propose a
graph-based event encoder that relates multiple events according to their content dependency and learns a representation
of each event. The motivation is that the importance of each event and whether it should be included in the summary
does not only depend on itself but also is related to other events. Take Table 1 for example, Jackson releases his first
solo album might be an important event, but its importance is weakened by his “Thriller” album that breaks the racial
barriers. Hence, the representation from the graph encoder incorporates global information from other events, thus
is used to replace the old global representation in the memory. In the decoder part, to avoid the situation in the bad
summary in Table 1, where it confuses the birthplace and the residence because the model is not sensitive to the timeline,
we propose a summary decoder that emphasizes the time information. Concretely, to ensure the chronological order
of the abstractive summary, we propose to extract the feature of event-level attention in its generation process with
sequential information remained and use it to simulate the evolutionary attention of the ground truth summary.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

4 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
In terms of the extractive part, we present a sentence embedding module to encode each sentence. Next, a sentence
extractor sequential selects important sentences to be included in the summary. The event-level attention can also
be used to assist in extracting summary in this process, where we devise a time-aware inconsistency loss function to
penalize the inconsistency between abstractive attention and extractive attention. Note that the extractive summary is
extracted one by one, thus the extracted summary also comes in time sequence.
We empirically compare MTS and UTS on the public dataset2 proposed by our early work [10]. This is a large-scale
real-world timeline summarization dataset, which consists of a series of time-stamped events and the corresponding
summary. Moreover, since this previous dataset only includes a timeline corpus about celebrities, we augment the
dataset with cases about social events. We also collect an English timeline summarization dataset. Experimental results
on these datasets and on out-of-domain Timeline17 dataset show that our newly proposed UTS model can significantly
outperform the existing methods. Particularly, UTS-abs yields 4.47% and 5.90% percentage point improvement in terms of
ROUGE-1 on celebrity and event timeline datasets compared with our early work MTS. In addition to the comprehensive
evaluation, we also evaluate our proposed graph encoder and attention mechanism by a fine-grained analysis. The
analysis reveals how the model leverages the explicit timeline information to guide the abstractive and extractive
summarization process and provides us insights on why they can achieve big improvement over state-of-the-art
methods.
Overall, our contributions can be summarized as follows:
• We propose a unified abstractive and extractive timeline summarization framework, where a time-aware inconsistency loss function is proposed to unify these two processes.
• We propose a graph-based encoder that relates multiple events according to their content dependency and learns
the global representation of each event.
• We propose to use the evolutionary attention of the ground truth summary to guide both the abstractive and
extractive summary generation process, to ensure that the generated summaries follow strict time order.
• We also augment the first real-world large-scale timeline summarization dataset with social event corpus and corpus
in English3 . Experiments conducted on the three datasets and the out-of-domain benchmark Timeline 17 dataset show
that our model outperforms all baselines, including state-of-the-art models. Experiments also verify the effectiveness of
each module in UTS as well as its interpretability.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: We summarize related work in §2. We then formulate our research
problem in §3 and elaborate our approach in §4. §5 gives the details of our experimental setup and §6 presents the
experimental results. Finally, §7 concludes the paper.
2

RELATED WORK

We detail related work on text generation methods, timeline summarization, extractive summarization, abstractive
summarization, unified summarization, and memory network.
2.1

Text Generation Methods

In recent years, sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) [61] based neural networks have been proved effective in generating a
fluent sentence. The seq2seq model is originally proposed for machine translation and later adapted to various natural
language generation tasks, such as text summarization [25, 38, 50, 65, 67] and dialogue generation [6, 63, 77, 79, 81].
2 https://github.com/yingtaomj/Learning-towards-Abstractive-Timeline-Summarization
3 Data will be released in camera-ready version.

Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

5

Rush et al. [54] apply the seq2seq mechanism with attention model to the text summarization field. Then See et al. [56]
add copy mechanism and coverage loss to generate summarization without out-of-vocabulary and redundancy words.
The seq2seq architecture has also been broadly used in a dialogue system. Tao et al. [62] propose a multi-head attention
mechanism to capture multiple semantic aspects of the query and generate a more informative response. Yao et al. [77]
propose to use the content introducing method to solve the problem of generating a meaningless response. Wang et al.
[68] use three channels for widening and deepening the topics of interest and try to make the conversational model
chat more turns.
2.2

Timeline Summarization

The timeline summarization task is firstly proposed by Allan et al. [2], where they define temporal summaries of news
stories as extracting a single sentence from each event within a news topic. Later, a series of works [72, 74, 75, 82]
further investigate timeline summarization task. Yan et al. [75] formally formulate the task as an optimization problem
via iterative substitution from a set of sentences to a subset of sentences that satisfies the above requirements, balancing
coherence/diversity measurement and local/global summary quality. In follow-up work, Yan et al. [72] propose to
model trans-temporal correlations among component summaries for timelines, using inter-date and intra-date sentence
dependencies, and present a novel combination. There are also works focusing on tweets summarization that is related
to timeline summarization. For example, [53] focus on the problem of selecting meaningful tweets given a user’s
interests; the dynamic nature of user interests, the sheer volume, and the sparseness of individual messages make
this a challenging problem. Specifically, they consider the task of time-aware tweets summarization, based on a user’s
history and collaborative social influences from “social circles”. Ghalandari and Ifrim [26] compare different timeline
summarization strategies using appropriate evaluation frameworks. For a more robust evaluation, they also present a
new timeline summarization dataset, which spans longer time periods than previous datasets. However, all the above
works are based on extractive methods, which are not as flexible as abstractive approaches.
The most similar work to ours is proposed by [58], where they construct a word-adjacency graph, and then generate
new sentences from this graph by finding paths from the sentence start node to the sentence end node. This is very
different from our neural-based approach, and we demonstrate the superiority of our model in the experiment.
2.3

Extractive Summarization

Despite the focus on abstractive summarization, extractive summarization remains an attractive method. In extractive
summarization, Kobayashi et al. [30] propose a summarization method using document-level similarity based on word
embeddings. Meanwhile, Filippova et al. [20] use an RNN to delete words in a document for sentence compression. Yan
and Wan [76] propose more meaningful and informative units named frequent deep dependency sub-structure and
a topic-sensitive multi-task learning model for multi-doc summarization. Cheng and Lapata [13] propose a general
framework for single-document text summarization using a hierarchical article encoder composed with an attentionbased extractor. Following this, Nallapati et al. [47] propose a simple RNN-based sequence classifier that outperforms or
matches the state-of-art models at the time. Chen et al. [11] introduce a model which iteratively polishes the document
representation on many passes through the document, so as to produce a better summary. In another approach, Narayan
et al. [49] use a reinforcement learning method to optimize the ROUGE evaluation metric for text summarization. Ren
et al. [52] study the use of sentence relations, e.g., contextual sentence relations, title sentence relations, and query
sentence relations, so as to improve the performance of extractive summarization.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

6 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
Recently, pre-trained language models are also applied in summarization for contextual word representations [39, 83].
Another intuitive structure for extractive summarization is the graph, which can better utilize the statistical or linguistic
information between sentences. Early works focus on document graphs constructed with the content similarity among
sentences, like LexRank [19] and TextRank [43]. Some recent works aim to incorporate a relational prior into the
encoder by graph neural networks (GNNs) [78].
2.4

Abstractive Summarization

Recently, with the emergence of strong generative neural models for text [3], abstractive summarization is also becoming
increasingly popular [47, 56]. These models typically take the form of convolutional neural networks (CNN) or recurrent
neural networks (RNN). For example, Rush et al. [54] propose an encoder-decoder model which uses a local attention
mechanism to generate summaries. Nallapati et al. [48] further develop this work by addressing problems that had not
been adequately solved by the basic architecture, such as keyword modeling and capturing the hierarchy of sentence-toword structures. In follow-up work, Nallapati et al. [46] propose a new summarization model which generates summaries
by sampling a topic one sentence at a time, then producing words using an RNN decoder conditioned on the sentence
topic. Zhu et al. [85] tackles the cross-lingual summarization task, which aims at summarizing a document in one
language into another language. They propose a method inspired by the translation pattern in the process of obtaining
a cross-lingual summary. A series of works relies on prototype text to assist in summarization. Cao et al. [7] chose the
template with the highest similarity to the input sentence as a soft template to generate summaries. Following this, Gao
et al. [22] proposed to generate the summary with pattern based on prototype editing. Summarization techniques have
also been used in other tasks such as related work generation [9] and headline generation [36].
2.5

Unified Summarization

Unified summarization here means unifying extractive and abstractive summarization tasks together. It is a common
way to propose a multi-task framework that utilizes the benefits from one task to augment the performance of the
other task. For example, Hsu et al. [28] proposed a unified framework that takes advantage of both extractive and
abstractive summarization using an attention mechanism, which is a combination of the sentence-level attention. Chen
and Bansal [12] introduced a multi-step procedure, namely compression paraphrase, for abstractive summarization,
which first extracts salient sentences from documents and then rewrites them in order to get final summaries. Li et al.
[33] introduced a guiding generation model, where the keywords in source texts are first retrieved with an extractive
model. The most similar work to ours is [28], where they use sentence-level attention to modulate the word-level
attention such that words in less attended sentences are less likely to be generated. Their sentence-level attention is
static during the generation process, while in our model, the high-level attention changes in each decode step depending
on the current generated word which is more reasonable.
2.6

Memory Network

The memory network proposed by Sukhbaatar et al. [59] generally consists of two components. The first one is a
memory matrix to save information (i.e., memory slots) and the second one is a neural network to read/write the
memory slots. The memory network has shown better performance than traditional long-short term memory network
in several tasks, such as question answering [21, 40, 51, 59], machine translation [42], text summarization [10, 29],
dialog system [16, 69], job-resume matching [73] and recommendation [18, 66, 84]. The reason is that the memory
network can store the information in a long time range and has more memory storage units than LSTM which has a
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order
Symbol

Description

𝑋
𝑌
𝑌ˆ
𝑥𝑖
𝑤 𝑖𝑗
𝑇𝑒
𝑇𝑤𝑖
𝑇𝑦
𝑇𝑦𝑠
𝑙𝑖

a document consists of multiple events
ground truth timeline summary
generated timeline summary
𝑖-th event in input document
𝑗-th word in 𝑖-th event
number of input events
number of words in 𝑖-th event
number of words in ground truth summary
number of sentences in the ground truth timeline summary
extract label for 𝑖-th sentence in the summary

7

Table 2. Glossary.

single hidden state. Following memory network, there are many variations of memory network have been proposed,
i.e., key-value memory network [45] and dynamic memory network [31, 70]. Representative works include [23], where
they generate more meaningful answers in E-commerce question-answering by a read-and-write memory consisting of
selective writing units to conduct reasoning among these reviews.
In our work, we apply the key-value memory network on the timeline summarization task and fuse it into the
generation process.
3

PROBLEM FORMULATION

Before detailing our answer generation model, we first introduce our notations listed in Table 2.
UTS takes a list of events 𝑋 = (𝑥 1, ..., 𝑥𝑇𝑒 ) as inputs, where 𝑇𝑒 is the number of events. Each event 𝑥𝑖 is a list of words:
𝑥𝑖 = (𝑤 1𝑖 , 𝑤 2𝑖 , ..., 𝑤 𝑖 𝑖 ), where 𝑤 𝑖𝑗 is the 𝑗-th word in 𝑖-th event, and 𝑇𝑤𝑖 is the word number of event 𝑥𝑖 .
𝑇𝑤
In the abstractive part, UTS-abs aims to generate a summary 𝑌ˆ = (𝑦ˆ1, ..., 𝑦ˆ𝑇 ) that is not only grammatically correct
𝑦

but also consistent with the event information such as occurrence place and time. Essentially, UTS-abs tries to optimize
Î𝑇𝑦
the parameters to maximize the probability 𝑃 (𝑌 |𝑋 ) = 𝑡 =1
𝑃 (𝑦𝑡 |𝑋 ), where 𝑌 = (𝑦1, ..., 𝑦𝑇𝑦 ) is the ground truth
summary.
For the extractive part, UTS-ext targets at generating a score vector 𝐿ˆ = {𝑙ˆ1, . . . , 𝑙ˆ𝑇𝑦𝑠 } for each sentence, where each
score denotes the sentence’s extracting probability. We convert the human-written summaries to gold label vector
𝐿 = {𝑙 1, ..., 𝑙𝑇𝑦𝑠 }, where 𝑙𝑖 ∈ {0, 1} denotes whether the 𝑖-th sentence is selected (1) or not (0). During the training
ˆ which is minimized to optimize 𝐿.
ˆ
process, the cross-entropy loss is calculated between 𝐿 and 𝐿,
4

MODEL

4.1

Overview

In this section, we introduce our Unified Timeline Summarizer (UTS) in detail. The overview of UTS is shown in Figure 1
and can be split into two parts, one aims to generate an abstractive summary, and one targets selecting important
sentences as a summary.
Abstractive part includes: (1) Event Embedding Module (See § 4.2): To obtain the vector representations for each event,
we employ a recurrent network with Selective Reading Units (SRU) to learn the local representations. (2) Graph-based
Encoder (See § 4.3): The representations learned in the last module do not incorporate interaction between events.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

8 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
Table 3. Comparision between MTS and UTS.

Event Embedding Module
Graph-based Encoder
Time-Event Memory
Summary Generator
Sentence Embedding Module
Sentence Extractor
Unifier

MTS

UTS

SRU
Key-Value Memory
Editing Gate
-

SRU
Transformer
Key-Value Memory
Editing Gate
SRU
RNN
Inconsistency loss

Hence, we propose a graph-based encoder to learn the global representation of each event incorporating the information
from other events and the relationship between them. (3) Time-Event Memory (See § 4.4): we propose a time-event
memory, which stores the local and global event representation, with time position keys together forming a timeline. (4)
Summary Generator (See § 4.5): eventually, we use an RNN-based decoder to generate the summary under the guidance
of event-level attention and word-level attention.
Extractive part includes: (5) Sentence Embedding Module (See § 4.6): this module embeds the sentence to a vector
representation in a similar way to the event embedding module. (6) Sentence Extractor (See § 4.7): the sentence extractor
selects the salient sentences as the summary following the sequential time order.
Additionally, we propose (7) Chronological-Attention Unifier (See § 4.8), to let the two parts complement each other
by unifying the attention distributions of abstractive parts and extractive parts. Concretely, we propose a time-aware
inconsistency loss to penalize the inconsistency between these two tasks.
Although some encoder and decoder modules in MTS are similar to UTS, there are three significant differences in
our UTS model compared with MTS:
(1) MTS encodes each event independently, without considering the information interaction between events. While
in UTS, we propose a graph encoder, which learns global representations for input events.
(2) We propose a unified timeline framework that can not only generate an abstractive summary, but also an
extractive summary. That is, only UTS includes the extractive part.
(3) We propose to unify the abstractive and extractive parts together, where the two tasks can benefit each other.
Specifically, we show the comparison between MTS and UTS in Table 3.
4.2

Event Embedding Module

We first propose an event embedding module to obtain the word-level and event-level vector representations. To begin
with, we use an embedding matrix 𝑒 to map a one-hot representation of each word in 𝑥𝑖 into a high-dimensional vector
space. We denote 𝑒 (𝑤𝑡𝑖 ) as the embedding representation of word 𝑤𝑡𝑖 . We then employ a bi-directional recurrent neural
network (Bi-RNN) to model the temporal interactions between words:
←
−
←−−−
ℎ𝑖𝑡 = LSTMenc ([𝑒 (𝑤𝑡𝑖 ); 𝑝 𝑖 ], ℎ𝑖𝑡 −1 ),
→
−
−−−→
ℎ𝑖𝑡 = LSTMenc ([𝑒 (𝑤𝑡𝑖 ); 𝑝 𝑖 ], ℎ𝑖𝑡 −1 ),
→ ←
−
−
ℎ𝑖𝑡 = ℎ𝑖𝑡 + ℎ𝑖𝑡 ,
Manuscript submitted to ACM

(1)
(2)
(3)

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

9

(3) Time-Event Memory
Key

Local Value Global Value

Time1
Time2
Time3

Event1

...

(1) Event
Embedding Module

Event2

...

(1) Event
Embedding Module

Event3

...

(1) Event
Embedding Module

Chronological
(4) Summary
Event-level Attention
Generator

(2) Graph-based Encoder

Abstractive
Timeline Summary

(7) Chronological-Attention Uniﬁer

...

(5) Sentence
Embedding Module
Chronological
(6) Summary
Sentence-level Attention
Extractor

(5) Sentence
Embedding Module

Extractive
Timeline Summary

...
(5) Sentence
Embedding Module
Sentences

Fig. 1. Overview of UTS. We divide our model into abstractive summarization part and extractive summarization part. Abstractive
part includes: (1) Event Embedding Module, (2) Graph-based encoder, (3) Time-Event Memory, and (4) Summary Generator. Extractive
part includes: (5) Sentence Embedding Module and (6) Sentence Extractor. Additionally, there is a (7) Chronological Attention Unifier
that unifies the two tasks.

where “;” denotes the concatenation between vectors, and ℎ𝑖𝑡 denotes the hidden state of 𝑡-th word in Bi-RNN for event
𝑥𝑖 . To capture the sequential information of events, we randomly initialize a time position encoding vector 𝑝 𝑖 of 𝑖-th
event to be included in the Bi-RNN input.
Apart from obtaining word representation ℎ𝑖𝑡 , we also need to gain event representation. Simply taking the final
state of Bi-RNN ℎ𝑖 𝑖 as the representation of the whole event cannot fully capture the feature of the whole event. Thus,
𝑇𝑤

we employ the selective reading module consisted of SRU proposed in [11] to gain new event representation 𝑎𝑖 :
𝑠𝑡𝑖 = SRU(𝑠𝑡𝑖 −1, [ℎ𝑖𝑡 , ℎ𝑇𝑖 𝑖 ]),

(4)

𝑎𝑖 = 𝑠𝑇𝑖 𝑖 ,

(5)

𝑤

𝑤

where 𝑠𝑡𝑖 is the hidden state of 𝑡-th SRU cell in 𝑖-th event. At the high level, SRU is a modified version of GRU, which
replaces the update gate in original GRU [15] with a new gate taking each input ℎ𝑖𝑡 and coarse event representation ℎ𝑇𝑖

𝑤

into consideration. We omit the details here due to limited space and readers can refer to [11] for details. So far, we
obtain the representation of 𝑖-th event 𝑎𝑖 and 𝑡-th word in 𝑎𝑖 , i.e., ℎ𝑖𝑡 .
4.3

Graph-based Encoder

The event representation 𝑎𝑖 in the previous section is calculated independently, without considering the information
flow between different events. However, the importance of each event and whether it should be included in the summary
does not only depend on itself but also is related to other events. For example, in Table 1, Jackson releases his first
solo album might be an important event, but its importance is weakened by his “Thriller” album that breaks the racial
Manuscript submitted to ACM

10 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
barriers. Hence, we propose a graph-based encoder to learn the relationship between events and obtain a global event
representation that incorporates such information.
As shown in Figure 1, to embed relationship information, we set up the relation edges in our document modeling
graph. The relation edge in our graph is firstly initialized by the event representation:
𝑟 𝑖,𝑗 = MLP𝑎 ([𝑎𝑖 ; 𝑎 𝑗 ]),

(6)

where MLP is a multi-layer perceptron.
Next, during the relation-aware encoding process, we incorporate the relation edge 𝑟 𝑖,𝑗 into the final event representation by self attention operation:
𝑏𝑖 = RE(𝑎𝑖 , 𝑎 ∗, 𝑟 𝑖,∗ ),

(7)

where ∗ denotes all indexes between 1 and 𝑇𝑒 . This module is based on Transformer. Thus, we first introduce Transformer:
′

𝑏𝑖 = Transformer(𝑎𝑖 , 𝑎 ∗ ).

(8)
′

Concretely, the first input is for query and the second input is for keys and values. Each output element, 𝑏𝑖 , is computed
as weighted sum of a linearly transformed input values:
′

𝑏𝑖 =

𝑇
𝑒
∑︁

𝑖,𝑗

𝛼𝑔



𝑎 𝑗𝑊 𝑉 .

(9)

𝑗=1
𝑖,𝑗

Each weight coefficient, 𝛼𝑔 , is computed using a softmax function:
 
𝑖,𝑗
exp 𝛽𝑔
𝑖,𝑗

.
𝛼𝑔 = Í
𝑇𝑒
𝑖,𝑘
exp
𝛽
𝑔
𝑘=1

(10)

𝑖,𝑗

𝛽𝑔 is computed using a compatibility function that compares two input elements:
𝑇


𝑎𝑖 𝑊 𝑄 𝑎 𝑗 𝑊 𝐾
𝑖,𝑗
𝛽𝑔 =
,
√
𝑑

(11)

where 𝑑 is the hidden dimension, and 𝑊 𝑄 ,𝑊 𝐾 ,𝑊 𝑉 ∈ R𝑑×𝑑 are parameter matrices.
RE is similar to Transformer, with two changes in Equation 9 and 11. Specifically, we modify Equation 9 to propagate
edge information to the sub-layer output:
𝑏𝑖 =

𝑇𝑒
∑︁

𝑖,𝑗

𝛼𝑔



𝑎 𝑗 𝑊𝑟𝑉 + 𝑟 𝑖,𝑗 .

(12)

𝑗=1

In this way, the representation of each event is more comprehensive, consisting of its relation dependency information
𝑖,𝑗

with other events. In the meantime, when deciding the weight of each edge, i.e., 𝛽𝑔 , we also incorporate relation edge
information, since close relationships can have a great impact on edge weight. Concretely, Equation 11 is changed to:


𝑇
𝑄
𝑎𝑖𝑊𝑟
𝑎 𝑗 𝑊𝑟𝐾 + 𝑟 𝑖,𝑗
𝑖,𝑗
𝛽𝑔 =
.
(13)
√
𝑑

Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

Key

Global
Value

11

Local
Value

Time1
Time2
Time3

Update

Initial State

Chronological event-attention

Word-attention

Event1
Event2
Event3
MJ

was

born

in

...

Fig. 2. An overview of the summary generator in the abstractive part. The summary generator generates the next word based on
word-level and event-level attention, as well as the key-value memory.

The intuition for Transformer architecture is that each input is not isolated, and its representation depends on other
inputs as well. In our augmented Transformer, i.e., graph-based encoder, the polished event representation 𝑏𝑖 follows
the same idea and expands the dependency between input documents. 𝑏𝑖 does not only depend on its corresponding
content but also depends on other inputs, as well as the relationships with others.
4.4

Time-Event Memory

As stated in the Introduction, in the timeline dataset, the generated summary should capture the time-series information
to guide the chronological generation process. Hence, we propose a key-value memory module where keys together
form a timeline, and this time series information is used to guide the generation process as shown in Figure 2.
The key in this memory is the time position encoding 𝑝 𝑖 introduced in § 4.2. We will use this key as time guidance
to extract information from the value part in the memory, which will be introduced in detail in § 4.5. The value part
stores event information of local aspect in local value and global aspect in global value. Local value simply stores the
event representation 𝑎𝑖 , which means that only captures information from the current event. On the other hand, the
global value is responsible for learning the event feature from a global perspective, not only based on itself but also its
relationship with other events. Hence, it stores the graph-based encoder output, 𝑏𝑖 .
4.5

Summary Generator

To generate a consistent and informative summary, so as to avoid mixing information from different time stamps due to
unawareness of correct timeline, we propose an RNN-based decoder that incorporates outputs of time-event memory
module and event representation as illustrated in Figure 2.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

12 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
Following [35], we randomly initialize an LSTM cell taking the concatenation of all event representations as input,
and use the output as decoder initial state:


ℎ 0′ = LSTMini ℎ𝑐 , [𝑎 1 ; ...; 𝑎𝑇𝑒 ] ,

(14)

where ℎ𝑐 is a random variable.

4.5.1 Word-level attention. Next, following traditional attention mechanism in [4], we summarize the input document
into context vector 𝑐𝑡′−1 dynamically, and the 𝑡-th decoding step is calculated as:

ℎ𝑡′ = LSTMdec ℎ𝑡′−1, [𝑐𝑡′−1 ; 𝑒 (𝑦𝑡 −1 )] ,

(15)

where ℎ𝑡′ is the hidden state of 𝑡-th decoding step. Context vector 𝑐𝑡′−1 is calculated as:


⊺
𝑡′
𝛼𝑖,𝑗
= 𝑊𝑎 tanh 𝑊𝑏 ℎ𝑡′−1 + 𝑊ℎ ℎ𝑖𝑗 ,

(16)

𝑇𝑤𝑖

𝑇𝑒 ∑︁
 ′ 
 ′  ∑︁
©
ª
𝑡
𝑡
𝑡
/ ­ exp 𝛼𝑘,𝑗
𝛼𝑖,𝑗
= exp 𝛼𝑖,𝑗
®,
𝑗=1
𝑘=1 «
¬

(17)

𝑖

𝑐𝑡′−1 =

𝑇𝑤
𝑇𝑒 ∑︁
∑︁
©
𝑡 𝑖ª
ℎ𝑗 ® ,
­ 𝛼𝑖,𝑗
𝑖=1 « 𝑗=1
¬

(18)

𝑡 ,
where we first use the decoder state ℎ𝑡′−1 to attend to each states ℎ𝑖𝑗 which results in the attention distribution 𝛼𝑖,𝑗

shown in Equation 17. ℎ𝑖𝑗 denotes the representation of 𝑗-th word in event 𝑥𝑖 . Then we use the attention distribution
𝑡 to obtain the weighted sum of document states as the context vector 𝑐 ′ .
𝛼𝑖,𝑗
𝑡 −1

Context vector 𝑐𝑡′−1 here only takes the word-level attention into consideration without considering event-level
information. However, in timeline summarization, it is important for the model to be aware of which event it is currently
describing, or it may confuse information from different events and result in an unfaithful summary. Hence, we introduce
an event-level attention 𝛽 similar to the calculation of word-level attention and use it to adjust word-level attention:


′
⊺
𝛽𝑖𝑡 = 𝑊𝑐 tanh 𝑊𝑑 ℎ𝑡′−1 + 𝑊𝑒 𝑎𝑖 ,
(19)
𝑇𝑒
 ′  ∑︁
 ′
𝛽𝑖𝑡 = exp 𝛽𝑖𝑡 / exp 𝛽 𝑡𝑗 ,

(20)

𝑗=1
𝑡
𝑡 𝑡
𝛾𝑖,𝑗
= 𝛼𝑖,𝑗
𝛽𝑖 .

(21)

The new context vector 𝑐𝑡 (replacing 𝑐𝑡′ in Equation 15) is now calculated as:
𝑐𝑡 =

𝑖
𝑇
𝑇
𝑤
𝑒
∑︁
∑︁

©
𝑡 𝑖ª
ℎ𝑗 ® .
­ 𝛾𝑖,𝑗
𝑖=1 « 𝑗=1
¬

(22)

4.5.2 Event-level attention. Apart from using event-level attention to directly guide word-level attention, we also use it
to obtain the weighted sum of event representation to be concatenated in the projection layer in Equation 31:
𝑒𝑡 =

𝑇
𝑒
∑︁
𝑖=1

Manuscript submitted to ACM

𝛽𝑖𝑡 𝑎𝑖 .

(23)

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

13

4.5.3 Memory guidance. So far, we have finished the calculation of the context vectors. Next, we introduce how to
incorporate the guidance from memory. We first use hidden state ℎ𝑡′ to attend to each key in memory. As stated in § 4.4,
keys, i.e., time position embeddings, conform the timeline that represents the time series information. Thus, we let
the model take advantage of this sequential information, and calculate the relevance between position encoding and
current state as time-attention 𝜋 (𝑝 𝑖 , ℎ𝑡′ ):
𝜋 (𝑝 𝑖 , ℎ𝑡′ ) = exp(ℎ𝑡′𝑊𝑒 𝑝 𝑖 )/

𝑇𝑒
∑︁

exp(ℎ𝑡′𝑊𝑒 𝑝 𝑗 ).

(24)

𝑗=1

Time-attention is then used to gain the weighted sum of local value 𝑣 1 and global value 𝑣 2 in the memory:
′

𝑚𝑡1 =

𝑇𝑒
∑︁

𝜋 (𝑝 𝑖 , ℎ𝑡′ )𝑣 𝑖1,

(25)

𝜋 (𝑝 𝑖 , ℎ𝑡′ )𝑣 𝑖2 .

(26)

𝑖=1
′

𝑚𝑡2 =

𝑇
𝑒
∑︁
𝑖=1

′

′

𝑚𝑡1 and 𝑚𝑡2 stores information from different level, thus should play different roles in generator.
′

By a fusion gate, local value 𝑚𝑡1 is changed to 𝑚𝑡1 and will be incorporated into the projection layer in Euqation 31.
′

𝑔𝑡1 = 𝑊𝑜 ([ℎ𝑡′ ; 𝑐𝑡 ; 𝑚𝑡1 ]),

(27)

1′

𝑚𝑡1 = 𝑔𝑡1 · 𝑚𝑡 .

(28)

We place the local value in the projection layer since 𝑚𝑡1 stores the detailed information rather than the global feature
in the input, thus should play an important part when generating each word.
′

As for the global value 𝑚𝑡2 , it stores the global feature of the event in a different position, thus should influence the
′

whole generation process. Concretely, information from 𝑚𝑡2 is fusioned into the decoding state ℎ𝑡′ by a gate:
′

𝑔𝑡2 = 𝑊𝑛 ([ℎ𝑡′ ; 𝑐𝑡 ; 𝑚𝑡2 ]),

(29)
2′

ℎ𝑡′ = 𝑔𝑡2 · ℎ𝑡′ + (1 − 𝑔𝑡2 ) · 𝑚𝑡 .

(30)

Finally, an output projection layer is applied to get the final generating distribution 𝑃 𝑣 over vocabulary:


𝑃 𝑣 = softmax 𝑊𝑣 [𝑚𝑡1 ; ℎ𝑡′ ; 𝑐𝑡 ; 𝑒𝑡 ] + 𝑏 𝑣 .

(31)

We concatenate the output of decoder LSTM ℎ𝑡′ , the word context vector 𝑐𝑡 , the event context vector 𝑒𝑡 , and memory
vector 𝑚𝑡1 as the input of the output projection layer.
In order to handle the out-of-vocabulary (OOV) problem, we equip the pointer network [27, 56] with our decoder,
which enables the decoder capable of copying words from the source text. The design of the pointer network is the
same as the model used in [56], thus we omit this procedure due to limited space.
Our objective function in the abstractive part is the negative log likelihood of the target word 𝑦𝑡 , shown in Equation 32:
L abs = −

𝑇𝑦
∑︁

log 𝑃 𝑣 (𝑦𝑡 ).

(32)

𝑡 =1

The gradient descent method is employed to update the parameters in the abstractive part to minimize this loss function.

Manuscript submitted to ACM

14 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan

SRU

SRU

SRU

Sentence-level
Encoding
xN

Word-level
Encoding

0

Sentence Embedding Module

Summary Extractor

Fig. 3. An overview of the sentence extractor in the extractive part. In each decoding step, a sentence is to be included in the summary
in sequence.

4.6

Sentence Embedding Module

So far, we introduce the abstractive timeline summarization part. Next, we will introduce the extractive summarization
part in UTS, and how to unify these two tasks.
Our sentence embedding module takes inspiration from [11], where the embedding module also takes the form of a
hierarchical structure and consists of an iterative polishing process to better encoder the input document. Concretely,
we employ a new Bi-RNN to process each sentence and obtain the representation ℎˆ𝑖𝑡 , denoting the 𝑡-th word in 𝑖-th
sentence. We use the last hidden state to represent the overall sentence representation, denoted as ℎˆ𝑖 . The document
𝑇𝑤

representation is initialized as the average of all sentence representations:
𝑇𝑦𝑠
1 ∑︁ h ˆ𝑖 i
©
ª
𝐷 1 = tanh ­𝑊
ℎ
+ 𝑏® .
(33)
𝑇𝑦𝑠 𝑖=1 𝑇𝑤
«
¬
Next, to model the sequential relationship between sentences and obtain a more comprehensive sentence representation,

we iteratively polish the sentence and document representations. For brevity, we take the first iteration as an example
to illustrate the process. Concretely, there is an RNN based on SRU (introduced in Equation 4) in the iteration:
ˆ𝑖−1
𝑎ˆ𝑖1 = SRU(𝑎ˆ𝑖−1
0 , [ℎ𝑇𝑤 , 𝐷 1 ]),
𝑇

𝐷 2 = GRUiter (𝑎ˆ1𝑦𝑠 , 𝐷 1 ),

(34)
(35)

where 𝑎ˆ𝑖1 is the hidden state of 𝑖-th SRU cell in the first iteration. In this way, we iteratively polish the sentence and
document representation. We use 𝐼 to denote the iteration number, thus the final representation for 𝑖-th sentence is 𝑎ˆ𝑖𝐼 .
4.7

Sentence Extractor

Different from previous work that builds a classifier to assign importance score to each sentence, we use an RNN
consisting of LSTM cells to select sentences, wherein each step a sentence is selected as illustrated in Figure 3. Following
traditional attention mechanism in [4], we summarize the input document sentences into context vector 𝑐 ext dynamically,
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

15

Sentence-level Attention
Map in Sentence Extractor
Event-level Attention Map
in Summary Generator
Sentence
Number

Convolution
Pooling

Time-aware
Inconsistency
Loss

Selected
Sentence
Number

Selected
Sentence
Number

Tile

Selected
Sentence
Number

Event
Number

Decode Step Number

Fig. 4. The illustration of the Chronological-Attention Unifier. After a convolution and a tile operation, the event-level attention in the
summary generation is compared with the sentence-level attention in sentence extractor, where a novel inconsistency loss function is
introduced to penalize the inconsistency between these two levels of attentions.

and the 𝑡-th decoding step is calculated as:
ℎ˜𝑡 +1 = LSTMext (ℎ˜𝑡 , [𝑐𝑡ext ; 𝑎ˆ𝑜𝑡
𝐼 ]),
𝑐𝑡ext =

𝑇𝑦𝑠
∑︁

(36)

𝛽ˆ𝑡𝑖 𝑎ˆ𝑖𝐼 ,

(37)

𝑜𝑡 = argmax(MLP(ℎ˜𝑡 )),

(38)

𝑖=1

ˆ𝑖
where 𝑜𝑡 is the index of the selected in 𝑡 step, and 𝑎ˆ𝑜𝑡
𝐼 is the hidden state of the previously selected sentence. 𝛽𝑡 is the
attention weight on 𝑖-th sentence in 𝑡-th step, and is computed in a similar way to §4.5.1. Thus, the details are omitted
here due to limited space.
In this way, our extracted summary is generated in sequence, so as to better capture the sequential information in
the input:
L ext = −

𝑇𝑦𝑠
∑︁

log 𝑃𝑠 (𝑙𝑖 ) .

(39)

𝑖=1

4.8

Chronological-Attention Unifier

In both abstractive and extractive timeline summarization tasks, the attention on the input document should both
follow the time sequential order. Hence, it is intuitive to encourage these two levels of attention to be mostly consistent
with each other during training as an intrinsic learning target for free (i.e., without additional human annotation).
In §4.5.1, we propose the event-level attention 𝛽 in abstractive part, while in §4.7, the extractor pays sentence-level
attention 𝛽ˆ on the input. The event-level attention evolves each time a new word is predicted in the summary generator,
while the sentence-level attention evolves when a new sentence is selected. Hence, we first use a convolutional neural
network (CNN) to extract the evolving event attention feature from the generator. Concretely, as shown in Figure 4, a
Manuscript submitted to ACM

16 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
convolution along the decode step number axis is conducted on the event-level attention map, and the new attention
matrix with the sentence-numbered axis is obtained. Then, for each sentence-select step, we duplicate the event-level
attention 𝛽𝑡𝑖 multiple times, where the duplicate number is the sentence number in the 𝑖-th event.
Finally, we would like the event-level attention to be high when the sentence-level attention is high. Hence, we
design the following time-aware inconsistency loss:
L

inc

!
𝑇𝑦𝑠
1 ∑︁
1 ∑︁ ˆ
=−
𝛽𝑡 × 𝛽𝑡 ,
log
𝑇𝑦 𝑡 =1
|K |

(40)

𝑡 ∈K

where K is the set of top K attended sentences. This implicitly encourages the distribution of the sentence-level
attentions to be sharp and event-level attention to be high. To avoid the degenerated solution for the distribution of
sentence attention to be one-hot and event attention to be high, we include the original loss functions for training
the extractor (L ext in §4.7) and abstracter (L abs in §4.5). Note that this module is the only part that the extractor is
interacting with the abstracter. Our time-aware inconsistency loss facilitates our end-to-end trained unified model to be
mutually beneficial to both the extractor and abstracter.
5

EXPERIMENTAL SETUP

5.1

Research Questions

We list seven research questions that guide the experiments: RQ1 (See § 6.1): What is the overall performance of UTS?
Does it outperform other baselines on multilingual datasets? RQ2 (See § 6.2): What is the performance of our model on
out-of-domain classic timeline summarization dataset? RQ3 (See § 6.3): What is the effect of each module in UTS? Does
our multi-task framework help better summarization performance? RQ4 (See § 6.4): Is the time position embedding
useful so that the summary generator can attend to correct information in the time-event memory? RQ5 (See § 6.5):
Can event-level attention correctly guide word-level attention in decoding process in the abstractive part? RQ6 (See
§ 6.6): Are the chronological attentions successfuly unified in the abstractive and extractive summarization tasks? RQ7
(See § 6.7): What is the influence of the parameter settings?
5.2

Dataset

To our best knowledge, there are no large-scale summarization datasets for timeline. Hence, in our previous work [10],
we collect a large-scale timeline dataset from the world’s largest Chinese encyclopedia4 . The character subsection of
this website consists of celebrities at all times and in all countries or lands. On each website page, there is a timeline
summary for each character, and in the character experience section of this page, each event is set as a paragraph with
explanation and details, which is selected as an input article. In the previous timeline works [72], they did not pre-select
important sentences from the event news articles as a way to test the summarization ability of the proposed model.
Hence, in our work, we did not preprocess the event paragraph as well, since these event paragraphs are similar to
news articles in content and in style. We filter out irrelevant content such as cited sources and figures. We did not
specifically extract time information from the input, because our model learns the time information in an implicit way,
instead of particularly encoding it. In total, the training dataset amounts to 169,423 samples with 5,000 evaluation and
5,000 test samples. On average, there are 353.79 words and 61.19 words in the article and summary respectively.

4 https://baike.baidu.com/

Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

17

Datasets

# docs (train/val/test)

avg. document length
words
sentences

avg. summary length
words
sentences

vocabulary size
document summary

TL17
Celebrity TS
Event TS
Wiki TS

4,650
169,423/5,000/5,000
83,188/3,000/3,000
140,000/5,000/5,000

1,252.33
353.79
495.19
606.65

43.66
61.19
141.62
79.19

102,099
444,725
1,083,249
1,029,617

63.76
12.76
18.73
27.79

2.73
3.97
6.05
7.89

6,725
191,334
368,619
438,011

Table 4. Comparison of summarization datasets with respect to overall corpus size, size of training, validation, and test set, average
document (source) and summary (target) length (in terms of words and sentences), and vocabulary size on both on source and target.
TS denotes Timeline Summarization.

Furthermore, in this work, we first augment the previous dataset with event timeline summarization cases. On
the Chinese encyclopedia, there is also a social event subsection that includes the developments of related events
over time. Concretely, in the development history section of each page, there are event paragraphs that describe the
development of the corresponding event, and there is also a corresponding timeline summary for these events. After
the same cleaning operation, we have 83,188 training cases, 3,000 validation, and 3,000 test samples. On average, there
are 495.19 words and 141.62 words in the article and summary respectively.
Note that the above two datasets are both in the Chinese language. To test the performance of our model on multilingual datasets, we collect an English timeline summarization dataset from Wikipedia websites. Since there are no
character or event subsections in Wikipedia, we filter timeline pages by checking if there are multiple timestamps in
the summary and document on each website. Other preprocesses are similar to the Chinese encyclopedia. A human
evaluation on 200 sampled cases from the collected corpus shows that 196 cases are timeline document-summary pairs,
145 of which are about characters, and 51 are about events.
Since we have large-scale English summarization datasets, we can test the generalization ability of our model on
classic timeline summarization datasets, which are small-scale. Concretely, we report the performance of UTS on
out-of-domain dataset Timeline 17 (TL17) [64]. TL17 contains human-written timelines about topics such as civil wars
or the British Petroleum oil disaster, collected from major news outlets. Each topic also has a set of related news articles
scraped from the web.
The statistics of the four datasets are listed in Table 4. We also give timeline statistic information in Table 5. It
can be seen that compared with TL17 dataset, our three datasets are significantly larger. This again demonstrates the
necessity of our datasets, which are large enough to train a neural-based model. In terms of timeline-related attributes,
the summaries in our datasets have more date stamps in each sentence on average, which requires the summarization
model to be more time-aware. The average date number in the document input is smaller in our datasets, this is because
that our input document is shorter than TL17. However, the average sentences/dates ratio of our datasets is comparable
to TL17, proving the time attribute of our datasets.
5.3

Comparison Methods

We first conduct an ablation study to prove the effectiveness of each module in UTS. Then, to evaluate the performance
of our proposed dataset and model, we compare it with the following baselines:
Abstractive baselines:
(1) Pointer-Gen [56] is an RNN based model with an attention mechanism and allows the system to copy words from
the source text via pointing for abstractive summarization.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

18 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
Document
Avg dates Avg sents/dates

Datasets
TL17
Celebrity TS
Event TS
Wiki TS

77.55
11.03
13.09
6.81

1.22
1.18
1.54
3.99

Summary length
Avg dates Avg sents/dates
1.61
3.15
5.55
2.49

1.14
1.10
1.19
3.17

Compression
Sent Date
34.70
3.76
3.03
3.44

32.46
3.50
2.36
2.74

Table 5. Timeline-specific statistic attributes of our datasets and TL17 dataset.

(2) FTSum leverages open information extraction and dependency parse technologies to extract actual fact descriptions
from the source text [8]. Since there is no open information extraction tool in Chinese, we use POS tagging to extract
entities and verbs to replace them.
(3) Unified is a unified model combining the strength of extractive and abstractive summarization proposed in [28],
where sentence-level attention is used to modulate the word-level attention such that words in less attended sentences
are less likely to be generated.
(4) GPG is a model proposed by Shen et al. [57] which generates summaries by “editing” pointed tokens instead of hard
copying. The editing is performed by transforming the pointed word vector into a target space with a learned relation
embedding.
(5) SAGCopy is an augmented Transformer with a self-attention guided copy mechanism, which was proposed by Xu
et al. [71]. Specifically, they first identify the importance of each source word based on the degree centrality with a
directed graph built by the self-attention layer in the Transformer. They then use the centrality of each source word to
guide the copy process explicitly.
(6) MTS is the first abstractive timeline summarization framework proposed in our previous work [10]. This method
achieves state-of-the-art performance on the celebrity timeline summarization dataset.
Extractive baselines:
(1) Lead3 is an extractive baseline that concatenates the first-3 sentences of each source document as a summary.
(2) TextRank [44] is an unsupervised algorithm while sentence importance scores are computed based on eigenvector
centrality within weighted-graphs for extractive sentence summarization.
(3) ITS One of state-of-the-art extractive summarization models proposed in [11]. ITS iteratively polishes the document
representation on many passes through the document, so as to extract better summaries.
For testing our models on out-of-domain dataset, we compare with a number of traditional timeline summarization
baselines:
(1) Chieu [14] is an unsupervised baseline based on direct summarization.
(2) Martschat [41] greedily selects a combination of sentences from the entire collection, which maximizes submodular
functions for content coverage, textual and temporal diversity and a high count of date references.
(3) Tran[5] is an original date-wise timeline summarization approach, using regression for both date selection and
summarization, and using all sentences of a date as candidate sentences.
(4) Pubcount [26] is a simple date-wise baseline that uses the publication count to rank dates, and all sentences
published on a date for candidate selection.
(5) Datawise [26] uses supervised date selection, PM-MEAN for candidate selection and CENTROID-OPT for summarization.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

19

(6) Clust [26] uses DATEMENTIONCOUNT to rank clusters, and CENTROID-OPT for summarization.
The performance of these baselines are consistent with the result from [26].
5.4

Evaluation Metrics

For evaluation metrics, we adopt ROUGE F1 score in [37] which is widely applied for summarization evaluation [11, 60].
The ROUGE metrics compare the generated summary with the reference summary by computing overlapping lexical
units, including ROUGE-1 (unigram), ROUGE-2 (bi-gram), and ROUGE-L (longest common subsequence).
For the out-of-domain test dataset, we follow [26], and use the specific timeline evaluation metric, i.e., Alignmentbased ROUGE F1-score, and Date F1-score. Alignment-based ROUGE F1-score compares the textual overlap between a
system and a ground-truth timeline, while also considering the assignments of dates to texts. Date F1-score compares
only the dates of a system and a ground-truth timeline.
[55] notes that only using the ROUGE metric to evaluate summarization quality can be misleading. Therefore, we also
evaluate our model by human evaluation. Three highly educated participants are asked to score 100 randomly sampled
summaries generated by GPG, SAGCopy, MTS, and UTS-abs. Statistical significance of observed differences between the
performance of two runs are tested using a two-tailed paired t-test and is denoted using ▲ (or ▼ ) for strong significance
for 𝛼 = 0.01.
5.5

Implementation Details

We implement our experiments in TensorFlow [1] on NVIDIA GTX 1080 Ti GPU. For all experiments, our model has
256-dimensional hidden states and 128-dimensional word embeddings. Following See et al. [56], we do not pretrain
the word embeddings, instead, they are learned from scratch during training. We use a vocabulary of 50k words for
both source and target. For time-event memory, the dimension of the key, global value, and local value are 128, 512,
and 256 respectively. We initialize all of the parameters randomly using a uniform distribution in [-0.02, 0.02]. The
batch size is set to 16, and the event number is set to 8. For the abstractive part, during training and at test time we
truncate the article to 400 tokens and limit the length of the summary to 70 tokens. For the extractive part, we used
a greedy algorithm similar to [47] to obtain an oracle summary for each document to train extractive models. The
algorithm generates an oracle consisting of multiple sentences which maximize the ROUGE-2 score against the gold
summary. We limit the input sentence number to 24, the length of each input sentence to 20, and the number of selected
sentences to 4. For the chronological-attention unifier, we set 𝐾 to 3 for computing L inc . We use Adagrad optimizer [17]
as our optimizing algorithm and the learning rate is 0.15. (This was found to work best of Stochastic Gradient Descent,
Adadelta, Momentum, Adam, and RMSProp). We use gradient clipping with a maximum gradient norm of 2, but do
not use any form of regularization. We use loss on the validation set to implement early stopping. In decoding, we
employ a beam search with beam size 4 to generate a more fluent summary sentence. When testing our model on the
out-of-domain Timeline 17 dataset, for each example with S source input documents, we take the first 400/S tokens
from each source document.
For the training efficiency, it takes about 9.7 hours to train an epoch, and our model reaches the best performance after
only 3 epochs. While for baseline Pointer-Gen, it takes 7 hours to train an epoch, but it reaches the best performance
after 7 epochs. In particular, our model makes much quicker progress in the early phases of training. This demonstrates
the effectiveness of our unified model. In terms of testing, it takes 1.06 hours to generate summaries for all the cases in
the test dataset. We selected the top-3 checkpoints based on the evaluation loss on the validation set, and report the
averaged results on the test set.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

20 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan

Models

Celebrity Timeline Dataset

Event Timeline Dataset

Wiki Timeline Dataset

RG-1

RG-2

RG-L

RG-1

RG-2

RG-L

RG-1

RG-2

RG-L

Sentence extraction methods
Lead3
32.36 17.96
TextRank
32.27 15.34
ITS
34.03 18.20
Unified-ext
34.18 18.29
UTS-ext
34.81 22.26

30.99
30.86
31.24
31.16
32.03

21.47
23.89
27.94
28.06
29.12

9.26
10.43
14.28
14.39
16.01

15.73
16.66
20.39
20.47
23.06

25.35
24.98
27.82
26.48
29.00

5.94
5.47
5.91
5.82
6.64

20.56
22.40
25.37
24.28
25.81

Abstractive methods
Pointer-Gen 36.61
FTSum
37.84
Unified-abs
38.24
GPG
38.43
SAGCopy
38.64
MTS
39.78
UTS-abs
41.56

34.51
35.37
36.42
36.38
36.41
37.69
39.18

22.56
23.41
23.58
22.38
23.40
23.89
25.30

7.84
6.95
7.93
7.77
7.95
8.38
9.63

21.00
21.66
21.95
20.81
21.72
21.97
23.28

23.12
24.08
24.34
24.71
26.00
26.68
27.71

5.07
5.80
5.84
5.80
5.84
5.88
5.92

19.65
20.05
20.37
20.85
22.01
23.18
24.62

21.35
21.47
21.95
21.59
20.84
22.24
23.95

Table 6. RQ1: ROUGE scores comparison between baselines. Models and baselines in the top half are extractive, while those in the
bottom half are abstractive. All our ROUGE scores have a 95% confidence interval of at most ±0.24 as reported by the official ROUGE
script.

6

EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS

6.1

Overall Performance

For research question RQ1, we examine the performance of our model and baselines in terms of ROUGE as shown
in table 6. Firstly, on the celebrity timeline dataset, abstractive models outperform extractive models by a substantial
margin on our datasets. We attribute this result to the observation that the gold summary of this dataset tends to use
new expressions to summarize the original input documents. This demonstrates the necessity of abstractive timeline
summarization approaches. Secondly, we compare our previous model MTS with recently-proposed baselines including
SAGCopy and GPG. These two baselines obtain lower ROUGE scores on our datasets than MTS, which demonstrates the
effectiveness of our previous model. Finally, based on MTS, our augmented model UTS-ext and UTS-abs achieves even
better performance.
Concretely, for the abstractive part, UTS-abs outperforms SAGCopy by 7.56%, 14.92% and 7.61%, and outperforms MTS
by 4.47%, 7.68% and 3.95% in terms of ROUGE-1, ROUGE-2 and ROUGE-L respectively on celebrity timeline dataset.
For the extractive part, our extractive method achieves about 2.23% points improvement on ROUGE-2 compared with
ITS on the celebrity timeline dataset. We attribute the improvement to two aspects: Firstly, the abstractive objective
can promote the recognition of important sentences for the extractive model with the chronological attention unifier
network. Besides, while extractive gold label sequences are obtained by greedily optimizing ROUGE-2 on the goldstandard summary, gold labels may not be accurate. Joint learning of two objectives may correct some biases for the
extractive model due to the inaccurate labels. The above results prove the superiority of our model. Note that we mainly
compare our model with ITS, because our extractive part is mostly based on ITS. Our framework can be applied to
other extractive models, and theoretically, will bring benefits for both tasks. We leave it as future work.
Our human evaluation study assessed the overall quality of the summaries on the celebrity timeline dataset by
asking three highly educated participants to rank them taking into account the following criteria: Fluency (is the
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

GPG
SAGCopy
MTS
UTS-abs

Fluency

Informativeness

Fidelity

2.59
2.64
2.71
2.77▲

2.53
2.57
2.58
2.62▲

2.39
2.43
2.61
2.65▲

21

Table 7. RQ1: Human evaluation comparison with main baselines on celebrity timeline dataset.

summary fluent and grammatical?), Informativeness (does the summary convey important facts about the topic in
question?), and Fidelity (is the summary faithful to the input?). We pick SAGCopy and GPG as baselines since their
performance is relatively high compared to other baselines. The rating score ranges from 1 to 3 and 3 is the best. The
results are presented in Table 7. We can see that our model performs much better than all baselines. In the fluency
indicator, our model achieves a high score of 2.77, which is higher than 2.59 of GPG and 2.64 of SAGCopy, indicating
that our model can reduce the grammatical errors and improve the readability of the summary. In the informativeness
indicator, our model is 0.05 better than SAGCopy. It indicates that our model can effectively capture salient information.
In the fidelity indicator, UTS-abs outperforms all baselines by a large margin, which indicates the multi-granularity
semantic information and joint learning with extractive summarization does help to avoid the unfaithful information
of the generated summary. It is worth noticing that the infidelity problem is a serious problem existing in timeline
summarization, and MTS and UTS-abs greatly alleviates such problem. We also conduct the paired student t-test between
our model and SAGCopy (the row with shaded background), and the result demonstrates the significance of the above
results. The kappa statistics is 0.46 and 0.49 respectively, which indicates moderate agreement between annotators5 . To
prove the significance of these results, we also conduct the paired student t-test between our model and SAGCopy. We
obtain a p-value of 3 × 10−8 , 8 × 10−12 , and 9 × 10−11 for fluency, informativeness, and fidelity, respectively.
We also show a case study in Table 9 with translated version in Table 8 selected from celebrity timelime dataset. The
case is about James Cameron’s career as a director. We omit unimportant information in the input document due to
limited space. The input document includes most of his works, and the detailed information of each event, while the
summary reference only introduces the main event of his experience, omitting those details and unimportant events.
It can be seen that the summary generated by UTS-abs successfully captures the important events, and introduces
them in the correct order. The output of our UTS-ext has a high overlap with the ground truth. As for baseline GPG, it
fails to capture the most important events, but includes irrelevant information such as details in filming “Piranha II”.
For baseline SAGCopy, it also generates unimportant descriptions including information “The dark angel of the last
world”. Moreover, our extractive and abstractive summary show consistent behavior with the high overlap, which
further indicates that the two methods can jointly promote the recognition of important information. Compared with
the extracted summary, the generated summary is more concise and coherent.
6.2

Out of Domain Test

Next, we address research question RQ2. In Table 10, we present the performance of UTS on the classic timeline
summarization TL17 dataset as an out-of-domain test. It can be seen that both of our models outperform existing
baselines. Specifically, UTS-ext outperforms the best baseline Datawise by 19.4% on AR1-F score, demonstrating the
5 [32] characterize kappa values < 0 as no agreement, 0-0.20 as slight, 0.21-0.40 as fair, 0.41-0.60 as moderate, 0.61-0.80 as substantial, and 0.81-1 as almost

perfect agreement.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

22 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
In 1981, James Cameron directed his first film, “Piranha II”, which was shot entirely in Italy. Cameron didn’t
get along well with an Italian speaking staff, and the producers didn’t let him participate in the final editing of
the film... In 1984, Cameron released his first self-made and self-directed film “Terminator”, which costs only 6.5
million dollars... In 1986, James Cameron’s second self-made work, “Alien 2”, was published... In 1987, “Alien 2”
won seven Academy Award nominations... James Cameron won the best director award at the 14th Saturn Awards
for this film. In 1989, Cameron wrote and directed his third film, “The Abyss”... In 1991, his film “Terminator 2”
made 200 million dollars at the box office in the United States, and he also won the 18th Saturn Awards for best
director and best screenwriter for this film. In 1997, Cameron directed the film “Titanic”, which wins 1.84 billion
at the box office, and starred Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet. In 1998, the film won 14 nominations and 11
awards at the 70th Academy Awards. In 2000, he directed and supervised the TV series “The dark angel of the last
world” with the theme of gene therapy.
reference In 1981, he directed the first film “Piranha II”. In 1984, he became famous for his science fiction film
“Terminator”. In 1986, he wrote and directed the film “Alien 2”. In 1991, he won the best director
award and best screenwriter award at the 18th Saturn awards for his film “Terminator 2”. In 1997,
his film “Titanic” won 1.84 billion dollars at the box office, breaking the global box office record; it
won 11 awards including best picture at the 70th Academy Awards, and James Cameron won the
best director award at the Oscars.
GPG
In 1981, James Cameron directed the film “Piranha II”. Cameron Cameron didn’t get along well with
an Italian speaking staff, and the producers didn’t let him participate in the final editing of the film.
In 1984, he became famous for his science fiction film “Terminator”. In 1986, he wrote and directed
the film “Alien 2”. In 1986, he wrote and directed the film “Alien 2”. In 1991, he won the best director
award and best screenwriter award at the 18th Saturn Awards for his film “Terminator 2”. In 1997,
his film Titanic won 1.84 billion US dollars at the box office.
SAGCopy In 1981, James Cameron directed his first work, “Piranha II”. In 1984, Cameron released his first film,
“Terminator”. In 1986, James Cameron wrote and directed his second work, “Alien 2”. In 1997, James
Cameron directed the film “Titanic”. In 2000, he directed and supervised the TV series “The dark
angel of the last world” with the theme of gene therapy.
UTS-ext
In 1981, James Cameron directed his first film, “Piranha II”, which was shot entirely in Italy. In 1984,
Cameron released his first self-made and self-directed film “Terminator”, which cost only 6.5 million
dollars. In 1986, James Cameron’s second self-made work, “Alien 2”, was published. in 1997, Cameron
directed the film “Titanic”, which wins 1.84 billion at the box office, and starred Leonardo DiCaprio
and Kate Winslet.
UTS-abs
In 1981, Cameron directed his first work, “Piranha II”. In 1984, he released his first film “Terminator”.
In 1986, his second film, “Alien 2”, was published. In 1987, “Alien 2” won the 14th Saturn Award for
best director. In 1991, his film “Terminator 2” made 200 million dollars in the United States. In 1997,
he directed the film “Titanic”. In 1998, the film won 14 Academy Awards nominations and 11 of them
at the 70th Academy Awards.
Table 8. RQ1: Examples of the generated answers by UTS-abs, UTS-ext and baselines (translated version).

effectiveness of the neural network in the traditional extractive style. UTS-abs performs similar to UTS-ext, improving
the AR1-F score of Pubcount by 3.79. This demonstrates that the abstractive methods can be adapted to out-of-domain
small-scale datasets. Specifically, since our original WikiTS dataset is in encyclopedia style, while Timeline 17 is a news
dataset, this demonstrates that our model can be applied to datasets of different language styles.
6.3

Ablation Study

Next, we turn to research question RQ3, where we perform an ablation study on the test set to investigate the influence
of different modules in our proposed UTS model. Modules are tested in four ways: (1) we remove the sentence extractor
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

23

1981年，詹姆斯·卡梅隆执导了第一部作品《食人鱼2》，影片完全在意大利拍摄。卡梅隆和一口意大利
语的工作人员相处得并不愉快，而拍摄完毕后制片方不让他参与影片的最终剪辑. 1984年，卡梅隆推出了
他第一部自编自导的影片《终结者》，这部影片的拍摄只花了650万美元... 1986年，詹姆斯·卡梅隆自编
自导的第二部作品《异形2》问世... 1987年，《异形2》获得了七项奥斯卡奖提名...詹姆斯·卡梅隆凭借此
片获得了第14届土星奖最佳导演奖... 1989年，卡梅隆自编自导了第三部电影《深渊》... 1991年，他执导的
电影《终结者2》在美国上映后取得了2亿美元的票房，他也凭借该片获得了第18届土星奖最佳导演奖以
及最佳编剧奖... 1997年，詹姆斯·卡梅隆执导了电影《泰坦尼克号》，该片获得18.4亿美元的票房，由莱
昂纳多·迪卡普里奥、凯特·温斯莱特等主演. 1998年，在第70届奥斯卡金像奖上这部影片获得了14个奥
斯卡奖的提名并获得了其中的11个奖项... 2000年，他执导并监制了以基因治疗为题材的电视剧《末世黑天
使》...
reference 1981年，詹姆斯卡梅隆执导首部电影《食人鱼2》。1984年，因自编自导科幻电影《终结者》
成名。1986年，自编自导电影《异形2》。1991年，凭借电影《终结者2》获得第18届土星奖最
佳导演奖以及最佳编剧奖。1997年，他执导的电影《泰坦尼克号》取得了18.4亿美元的票房，
打破全球影史票房纪录;该片在第70届奥斯卡金像奖上获得了包括最佳影片在内的11个奖项，詹
姆斯·卡梅隆凭借该片获得了奥斯卡奖最佳导演奖。
GPG
1981年，詹姆斯·卡梅隆执导了部作品《食人鱼2》，卡梅隆卡梅隆和一口意大利语的工作
人员相处得并不愉快，而拍摄完毕后制片方不让他参与影片的最终剪辑. 1984年，卡梅隆凭
借科幻电影《终结者》出名。1986年，他自编自导了电影《异形2》。1986年，他自编自导
了电影《异形2》。1991年，他凭借《终结者2》获得了第18届土星奖最佳导演奖和最佳编剧
奖。1997年，他的电影《泰坦尼克号》在美国获得了18.4亿票房。
SAGCopy 1981年， 詹 姆 斯·卡 梅 隆 执 导 了 第 一 部 作 品 《 食 人 鱼2》 。1984年， 卡 梅 隆 推 出 了 他 第 一
部 自 编 自 导 的 影 片 《 终 结 者 》 。1986年， 詹 姆 斯·卡 梅 隆 自 编 自 导 的 第 二 部 作 品 《 异
形2》。1997年，詹姆斯·卡梅隆执导了电影《泰坦尼克号》。2000年，他执导并监制了以
基因治疗为题材的电视剧《末世黑天使》。
UTS-ext
1981年，詹姆斯·卡梅隆执导了第一部作品《食人鱼2》，影片完全在意大利拍摄。1984年，
卡 梅 隆 推 出 了 他 第 一 部 自 编 自 导 的 影 片 《 终 结 者 》.这 部 影 片 的 拍 摄 只 花 了650万 美
元。1986年，詹姆斯·卡梅隆自编自导的第二部作品《异形2》问世。1997年，詹姆斯·卡
梅隆执导了电影《泰坦尼克号》，该片获得18.4亿美元的票房，由莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥、凯
特·温斯莱特等主演。
UTS-abs
1981年，卡梅隆执导了第一部作品《食人鱼2》。1984年，卡梅隆推出了他第一部自编自导的
影片《终结者》。1986年，自编自导的第二部作品《异形2》问世。1987年，《异形2》获得了
第14届土星奖最佳导演奖。1991年，他执导的电影《终结者2》在美国上映后取得了2亿美元的
票房。1997年，执导了电影《泰坦尼克号》。1998年，在第70届奥斯卡金像奖上这部影片获得
了14个奥斯卡奖的提名并获得了其中的11个奖项。
Table 9. RQ1: Examples of the generated answers by UTS-abs, UTS-ext and baselines.

Fig. 5. RQ3: Visualizations of time-attention. The figure in the left part is the attention map in the first decoding step, and the figure
in the right part is in the final decoding step.

and only train the generator to verify the effectiveness of joint learning on the abstractive summarization; (2) we
remove the summary generator part and only train the sentence extractor to verify the effectiveness of joint learning
on the extractive summarization; (3) we remove the graph-based encoder and only stores the local representation in the
Manuscript submitted to ACM

24 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan

Chieu
Martschat
Tran
Pubcount
Datewise
Clust
UTS-ext
UTS-abs

AR1-F

AR2-F

Date-F1

6.66
10.5
9.4
10.5
12.0
8.2
16.73
14.29

1.9
3.0
2.2
2.7
3.5
2.0
4.08
3.51

25.1
54.4
51.7
48.1
54.4
40.7
54.9
54.6

Table 10. RQ2: ROUGE scores on out-of-domain TL17 summarization dataset.

ROUGE-1

ROUGE-2

ROUGE-L

UTS-abs
without multitask
without global
without local

41.56
39.58
38.66
39.14

23.95
22.54
22.87
23.15

39.18
37.55
36.76
36.00

UTS-ext
without multitask
without global
without local

34.81
33.78
33.00
33.28

22.26
21.09
18.89
20.98

32.03
29.03
27.07
29.69

Table 11. RQ3: ROUGE scores of different ablation models.

memory to verify the effectiveness of global representation; (4) we remove the time-event memory entirely to verify
the importance of global and local representation further.
Table 11 presents the results. We find that the ROUGE-2 score of extractive summarization drops by 5.26% after
the summary generator is removed. This indicates that the joint learning method helps extractive summarization
to benefit from abstractive summarization. ROUGE-2 score of abstractive summarization drops by 5.54% after the
sentence extractor is removed. This indicates that extractive summarization does help abstractive summarization
identify important sentences during the interactive decoding phrase. ROUGE-2 score of extractive summarization drops
by 4.72%, while the ROUGE-2 score of abstractive summarization drops by 6.25% after the global representation is
removed. It indicates establishing the graph-based encoder to simulate the relationships between events is necessary to
improve the performance of both extractive and abstractive summarization. ROUGE-2 score drops by 4.72% and 3.45%
compared with UTS-abs after removing the global representation and the local representation. It indicates the semantic
information of the time-event memory is of great importance to encode multiple events.
6.4

Analysis of Time Position Embedding

We then address RQ4. The usefulness of time position embedding is reflected by time-attention in the memory, denoted
as 𝜋 as introduced in Equation 24. If the time position embedding successfully encodes the time information, then the
time-attention should obey the development of the input document. We visualize the attention map of two randomly
sampled examples as shown in Figure 5 from the celebrity timeline dataset. The figure on the left is the attention map
in the first decoding step, and the figure on the right is in the final decoding step. The darker the color is, the higher
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

25

Fig. 6. RQ5: Visualizations of two level attentions. The figure above is the event-level attention and the three figures below are the
word-level attentions of first lead three events.

the attention is. Due to limited space, we omit the corresponding event descriptions. When decoding starts, UTS-abs
learns to pay attention to the first two events, which always consist of parallel information such as the birthplace and
birth date of the character. The attentions on the last several events are low since it does not need this information in
advance. When decoding ends, UTS-abs focuses more on the last several events. However, it also pays attention to the
first few events, since timeline summarization is a process of information accumulation, and later sentences should
consider previous information. The above example demonstrates the effectiveness of time position embedding.
6.5

Analysis of Event-level Attention

We now turn to RQ5, whether event-level attention can guide word-level attention in the abstractive part. We first
conduct a case study to visualize the two-level attention, as shown in Figure 6. The figure above is the event-level
attention, and the three figures below are word-level attention corresponding to the first three events. We only show
the first 11 words in an event. The result shows that the third event is the most important event in this decoding
step, and the weights of the words in this event are also greater than other words on average. The above observation
demonstrates that event-level attention gives the correct guidance for word-level attention.
Apart from the visualization, we also conduct a quantitative analysis to measure how greatly the word-level attention
is influenced by event-level information, which is reflected by inconsistency loss. We adjust the inconsistency loss
proposed in §4.8 to evaluate the inconsistency between event attention and word attention. The new consistency loss
at 𝑡-th decoding step is the negative log-likelihood of the product of attention value of most attended words and their
corresponding event-level attention. The intuition is to verify whether the event-level attention is high too when
word-level attention is high. When training starts, the inconsistency loss is around 5.3, and when training ends, the loss
drops to 2.1. This means that event-level information greatly influences the word-level attention and the model learns
to unify these two attentions. We did not directly add inconsistency loss to training because we found that made UTS
perform worse. Instead, we let the model learn by itself to unify these two attentions.
6.6

Analysis of the Unified Chronological Attentions

We then address RQ6, examining whether the chronological attentions in the abstractive and extractive parts are indeed
unified. Remember that we come up with a time-aware inconsistency loss to unify the two attentions, thus, by looking
at the loss curve, we can examine the effectiveness of this part.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Time-aware
Inconsistency Loss

26 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan

4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5

0k

2k

4k

Step

6k

8k

10k

Fig. 7. RQ6: Time-aware inconsistency loss curve.

The loss curve of the inconsistency is shown in Figure 7. We can see that when the training begins, the inconsistency
loss fluctuates from time to time, probably because the model aims to train the extractor and generator separately at
the beginning of the process. However, the average of the inconsistency loss presents a falling tendency, which means
that the extractor and generator unify during the whole training procedure. In the end, the time-aware inconsistency
loss drops from 4.0 to 2.5.
6.7

Robustness of Parameter Setting

ROUGE-1
ROUGE-2
ROUGE-L

40
35
ROUGE score

30
25
20
15
10
5
0

64

128

256
Hidden Size

448

512

Fig. 8. Performance of UTS-abs with different parameter settings.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

27

Finally, we turn to address RQ7 to investigate the robustness of parameter setting. We train our model in different
parameter settings as shown in Figure 8. The hidden size of the RNN is tuned from 64 to 512, and we use the ROUGE 𝐹 1
score to evaluate each model. As the hidden size grows larger from 64 to 256, the performance rises along with. The
increment of hidden size improves the ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-L scores by 0.54 and 0.77 score. When the hidden size
continuously goes larger from 256 to 512, the performance is declined slightly. The increment of hidden size leads to a
1.15% and 1.25% drop in terms of ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-L respectively. Nonetheless, we can find that each metric is
maintained at a stable interval, which demonstrates that our UTS is robust in terms of different parameter sizes.
7

CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK

In our previous work, we propose a framework named MTS which aims to generate summaries that concisely summarize
the evolution trajectory along the timeline. However, in this method, the time information is captured in an implicit
and indirect way, where it is hard to verify and ensure the decoder indeed captures the time-sequential information.
Hence, in this work, we propose a novel Unified Timeline Summarizer (UTS) that can generate abstractive and extractive
timeline summaries in time order. Specifically, in the encoder part, we propose a graph-based event encoder that relates
multiple events according to their content dependency and learns a representation of each event. In the decoder part, to
ensure the chronological order of the abstractive summary, we propose to extract the feature of event-level attention in
its generation process with sequential information remained and use it to simulate the evolutionary attention of the
ground truth summary. The event-level attention can also be used to assist in extracting summary, where we devise
a time-aware inconsistency loss function to penalize the inconsistency between abstractive attention and extractive
attention. Note that the extractive summary is generated one by one, thus the extracted summary also comes in time
sequence. We augment the character timeline summarization dataset proposed in our previous work with the event
timeline summarization corpus and English corpus. Experimental results on these datasets and on out-of-domain
Timeline 17 dataset show that our UTS model can significantly outperform the existing methods. In the near future, we
aim to propose a multi-modal time-aware timeline summarization framework.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments. This work was supported by National
Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2020YFB1406702), National Natural Science Foundation of China
(NSFC Grant No. 62122089 & No. 61876196)

Manuscript submitted to ACM

28 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
REFERENCES
[1] Martín Abadi, Paul Barham, Jianmin Chen, Zhifeng Chen, Andy Davis, Jeffrey Dean, Matthieu Devin, Sanjay Ghemawat, Geoffrey Irving, Michael
Isard, et al. 2016. Tensorflow: a system for large-scale machine learning.. In OSDI, Vol. 16. 265–283.
[2] James Allan, Rahul Gupta, and Vikas Khandelwal. 2001. Temporal summaries of new topics. In SIGIR. ACM, 10–18.
[3] Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014. Neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and translate. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1409.0473 (2014).
[4] Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2015. Neural Machine Translation by Jointly Learning to Align and Translate. In ICLR.
[5] Giang Binh Tran, Mohammad Alrifai, and Dat Quoc Nguyen. 2013. Predicting relevant news events for timeline summaries. In Proceedings of the
22nd International Conference on World Wide Web. 91–92.
[6] Deng Cai, Yan Wang, Wei Bi, Zhaopeng Tu, Xiaojiang Liu, and Shuming Shi. 2019. Retrieval-guided Dialogue Response Generation via a Matchingto-Generation Framework. In EMNLP.
[7] Ziqiang Cao, Wenjie Li, Sujian Li, and Furu Wei. 2018. Retrieve, rerank and rewrite: Soft template based neural summarization. In Proceedings of the
56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 152–161.
[8] Ziqiang Cao, Furu Wei, Wenjie Li, and Sujian Li. 2018. Faithful to the original: Fact aware neural abstractive summarization. In AAAI.
[9] Xiuying Chen, Hind Alamro, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2021. Capturing Relations between Scientific
Papers: An Abstractive Model for Related Work Section Generation. In ACL.
[10] Xiuying Chen, Zhangming Chan, Shen Gao, Meng-Hsuan Yu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. Learning towards Abstractive Timeline Summarization. In IJCAI.
[11] Xiuying Chen, Shen Gao, Chongyang Tao, Yan Song, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2018. Iterative Document Representation Learning Towards
Summarization with Polishing. EMNLP (2018).
[12] Yen-Chun Chen and Mohit Bansal. 2018. Fast Abstractive Summarization with Reinforce-Selected Sentence Rewriting. ACL (2018).
[13] Jianpeng Cheng and Mirella Lapata. 2016. Neural summarization by extracting sentences and words. arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.07252 (2016).
[14] Hai Leong Chieu and Yoong Keok Lee. 2004. Query based event extraction along a timeline. In Proceedings of the 27th annual international ACM
SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval. 425–432.
[15] Kyunghyun Cho, Bart Van Merriënboer, Caglar Gulcehre, Dzmitry Bahdanau, Fethi Bougares, Holger Schwenk, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014. Learning
phrase representations using RNN encoder-decoder for statistical machine translation. EMNLP (2014).
[16] Eric Chu, Prashanth Vijayaraghavan, and Deb Roy. 2018. Learning Personas from Dialogue with Attentive Memory Networks. In EMNLP.
[17] John C. Duchi, Elad Hazan, and Yoram Singer. 2010. Adaptive Subgradient Methods for Online Learning and Stochastic Optimization. JMLR 12
(2010), 2121–2159.
[18] Travis Ebesu, Bin Shen, and Yi Fang. 2018. Collaborative Memory Network for Recommendation Systems. In SIGIR.
[19] Günes Erkan and Dragomir R Radev. 2004. Lexrank: Graph-based lexical centrality as salience in text summarization. Journal of artificial intelligence
research 22 (2004), 457–479.
[20] Katja Filippova, Enrique Alfonseca, Carlos A Colmenares, Łukasz Kaiser, and Oriol Vinyals. 2015. Sentence compression by deletion with lstms. In
Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 360–368.
[21] Jiyang Gao, Runzhou Ge, Kan Chen, and Ram Nevatia. 2018. Motion-Appearance Co-Memory Networks for Video Question Answering. In CVPR.
[22] Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Piji Li, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. How to Write Summaries with Patterns? Learning towards
Abstractive Summarization through Prototype Editing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.08837 (2019).
[23] Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Zhaochun Ren, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2020. Meaningful Answer Generation of E-Commerce Question-Answering.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.07307 (2020).
[24] Daniil Gavrilov, Pavel Kalaidin, and Valentin Malykh. 2019. Self-Attentive Model for Headline Generation. In European Conference on Information
Retrieval. Springer, 87–93.
[25] Sebastian Gehrmann, Yuntian Deng, and Alexander Rush. 2018. Bottom-Up Abstractive Summarization. In EMNLP.
[26] Demian Gholipour Ghalandari and Georgiana Ifrim. 2020. Examining the State-of-the-Art in News Timeline Summarization. In ACL.
[27] Jiatao Gu, Zhengdong Lu, Hang Li, and Victor O. K. Li. 2016. Incorporating Copying Mechanism in Sequence-to-Sequence Learning. CoRR
abs/1603.06393 (2016).
[28] Wan-Ting Hsu, Chieh-Kai Lin, Ming-Ying Lee, Kerui Min, Jing Tang, and Min Sun. 2018. A Unified Model for Extractive and Abstractive Summarization
using Inconsistency Loss. ACL, 132–141.
[29] Byeongchang Kim, Hyunwoo Kim, and Gunhee Kim. 2019. Abstractive Summarization of Reddit Posts with Multi-level Memory Networks. In
NAACL.
[30] Hayato Kobayashi, Masaki Noguchi, and Taichi Yatsuka. 2015. Summarization based on embedding distributions. In Proceedings of the 2015 conference
on empirical methods in natural language processing. 1984–1989.
[31] Ankit Kumar, Ozan Irsoy, Peter Ondruska, Mohit Iyyer, James Bradbury, Ishaan Gulrajani, Victor Zhong, Romain Paulus, and Richard Socher. 2016.
Ask Me Anything: Dynamic Memory Networks for Natural Language Processing. ArXiv abs/1506.07285 (2016).
[32] J Richard Landis and Gary G Koch. 1977. The measurement of observer agreement for categorical data. biometrics (1977), 159–174.

Manuscript submitted to ACM

Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order

29

[33] Chenliang Li, W. Xu, S. Li, and Sheng Gao. 2018. Guiding Generation for Abstractive Text Summarization Based on Key Information Guide Network.
In NAACL-HLT.
[34] Jiwei Li and Sujian Li. 2013. Evolutionary hierarchical dirichlet process for timeline summarization. In ACL, Vol. 2. 556–560.
[35] Jing Li, Aixin Sun, Jianglei Han, and Chenliang Li. 2018. A Survey on Deep Learning for Named Entity Recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.09449
(2018).
[36] Mingzhe Li, Xiuying Chen, Min Yang, Shen Gao, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2021. The Style-Content Duality of Attractiveness: Learning to Write
Eye-Catching Headlines via Disentanglement. In AAAI.
[37] Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. Text Summarization Branches Out (2004).
[38] Junyang Lin, Xu Sun, Shuming Ma, and Qi Su. 2018. Global Encoding for Abstractive Summarization. In ACL.
[39] Yang Liu and Mirella Lapata. 2019. Text summarization with pretrained encoders. arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.08345 (2019).
[40] Chao Ma, Chunhua Shen, Anthony Dick, Qi Wu, Peng Wang, Anton van den Hengel, and Ian Reid. 2018. Visual Question Answering With
Memory-Augmented Networks. In CVPR.
[41] Sebastian Martschat and Katja Markert. 2018. A Temporally Sensitive Submodularity Framework for Timeline Summarization. In Proceedings of the
22nd Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning. 230–240.
[42] Sameen Maruf and Gholamreza Haffari. 2018. Document Context Neural Machine Translation with Memory Networks. In ACL.
[43] Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau. 2004. Textrank: Bringing order into text. In Proceedings of the 2004 conference on empirical methods in natural
language processing. 404–411.
[44] Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau. 2004. TextRank: Bringing Order into Text. In EMNLP.
[45] Alexander H. Miller, Adam Fisch, Jesse Dodge, Amir-Hossein Karimi, Antoine Bordes, and Jason Weston. 2016. Key-Value Memory Networks for
Directly Reading Documents. ArXiv abs/1606.03126 (2016).
[46] Ramesh Nallapati, Igor Melnyk, Abhishek Kumar, and Bowen Zhou. 2017. Sengen: Sentence generating neural variational topic model. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1708.00308 (2017).
[47] Ramesh Nallapati, Feifei Zhai, and Bowen Zhou. 2017. Summarunner: A recurrent neural network based sequence model for extractive summarization
of documents. In AAAI.
[48] Ramesh Nallapati, Bowen Zhou, Caglar Gulcehre, Bing Xiang, et al. 2016. Abstractive text summarization using sequence-to-sequence rnns and
beyond. arXiv preprint arXiv:1602.06023 (2016).
[49] Shashi Narayan, Shay B Cohen, and Mirella Lapata. 2018. Ranking Sentences for Extractive Summarization with Reinforcement Learning. In NAACL.
1747–1759.
[50] Romain Paulus, Caiming Xiong, and Richard Socher. 2018. A Deep Reinforced Model for Abstractive Summarization. In ICLR.
[51] Juan Pavez, Hector Allende, and Hector Allende-Cid. 2018. Working Memory Networks: Augmenting Memory Networks with a Relational Reasoning
Module. In ACL.
[52] Pengjie Ren, Zhumin Chen, Z. Ren, Furu Wei, L. Nie, J. Ma, and M. Rijke. 2018. Sentence Relations for Extractive Summarization with Deep Neural
Networks. TOIS 36 (2018), 1 – 32.
[53] Zhaochun Ren, Shangsong Liang, Edgar Meij, and Maarten de Rijke. 2013. Personalized time-aware tweets summarization. In SIGIR. ACM, 513–522.
[54] Alexander M Rush, Sumit Chopra, and Jason Weston. 2015. A neural attention model for abstractive sentence summarization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1509.00685 (2015).
[55] Natalie Schluter. 2017. The limits of automatic summarisation according to ROUGE. In Proceedings of the 15th Conference of the European Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics: Volume 2, Short Papers. ACL, 41–45.
[56] Abigail See, Peter J. Liu, and Christopher D. Manning. 2017. Get To The Point: Summarization with Pointer-Generator Networks. ACL, 1073–1083.
[57] Xiaoyu Shen, Yang Zhao, Hui Su, and Dietrich Klakow. 2019. Improving Latent Alignment in Text Summarization by Generalizing the Pointer
Generator. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP). 3753–3764.
[58] Julius Steen and Katja Markert. 2019. Abstractive Timeline Summarization. In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on New Frontiers in Summarization.
21–31.
[59] Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Arthur Szlam, Jason Weston, and Rob Fergus. 2015. End-To-End Memory Networks. In NIPS.
[60] Min Sun, Wan Ting Hsu, Chieh-Kai Lin, Ming-Ying Lee, Kerui Min, and Jing Tang. 2018. A Unified Model for Extractive and Abstractive Summarization
using Inconsistency Loss. In ACL.
[61] Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc V. Le. 2014. Sequence to Sequence Learning with Neural Networks. In NIPS.
[62] Chongyang Tao, Shen Gao, Mingyue Shang, Wei Wu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2018. Get The Point of My Utterance! Learning Towards Effective
Responses with Multi-Head Attention Mechanism. In IJCAI. 4418–4424.
[63] Chongyang Tao, Lili Mou, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2018. RUBER: An Unsupervised Method for Automatic Evaluation of Open-Domain Dialog
Systems. In AAAI.
[64] G. Tran, Tuan Tran, N. Tran, M. Alrifai, and Nattiya Kanhabua. 2013. Leveraging Learning To Rank in an Optimization Framework for Timeline
Summarization.
[65] Kai Wang, Xiaojun Quan, and Rui Wang. 2019. BiSET: Bi-directional Selective Encoding with Template for Abstractive Summarization. In ACL.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

30 Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, and Rui Yan
[66] Qinyong Wang, Hongzhi Yin, Zhiting Hu, Defu Lian, Hao Wang, and Zi Huang. 2018. Neural Memory Streaming Recommender Networks with
Adversarial Training. In KDD.
[67] Wenbo Wang, Yang Gao, Heyan Huang, and Yuxiang Zhou. 2019. Concept Pointer Network for Abstractive Summarization. In EMNLP.
[68] Wenjie Wang, Minlie Huang, Xin-Shun Xu, Fumin Shen, and Liqiang Nie. 2018. Chat More: Deepening and Widening the Chatting Topic via A Deep
Model. In SIGIR. ACM.
[69] Chien-Sheng Wu, Richard Socher, and Caiming Xiong. 2019. Global-to-local Memory Pointer Networks for Task-Oriented Dialogue. In ICLR.
[70] Caiming Xiong, Stephen Merity, and Richard Socher. 2016. Dynamic Memory Networks for Visual and Textual Question Answering. ArXiv
abs/1603.01417 (2016).
[71] Song Xu, Haoran Li, Peng Yuan, Youzheng Wu, Xiaodong He, and Bowen Zhou. 2020. Self-Attention Guided Copy Mechanism for Abstractive
Summarization. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. 1355–1362.
[72] Rui Yan, Liang Kong, Congrui Huang, Xiaojun Wan, Xiaoming Li, and Yan Zhang. 2011. Timeline generation through evolutionary trans-temporal
summarization. In EMNLP. ACL, 433–443.
[73] Rui Yan, Ran Le, Yang Song, Tao Zhang, Xiangliang Zhang, and Dongyan Zhao. 2019. Interview choice reveals your preference on the market: To
improve job-resume matching through profiling memories. In Proceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery
& Data Mining. 914–922.
[74] Rui Yan, Xiaojun Wan, Mirella Lapata, Wayne Xin Zhao, Pu-Jen Cheng, and Xiaoming Li. 2012. Visualizing timelines: Evolutionary summarization
via iterative reinforcement between text and image streams. In CIKM. ACM, 275–284.
[75] Rui Yan, Xiaojun Wan, Jahna Otterbacher, Liang Kong, Xiaoming Li, and Yan Zhang. 2011. Evolutionary timeline summarization: a balanced
optimization framework via iterative substitution. In SIGIR. ACM, 745–754.
[76] S. Yan and Xiaojun Wan. 2015. Deep Dependency Substructure-Based Learning for Multidocument Summarization. TOIS 34 (2015), 3:1–3:24.
[77] Lili Yao, Yaoyuan Zhang, Yansong Feng, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2017. Towards Implicit Content-Introducing for Generative Short-Text
Conversation Systems. In EMNLP.
[78] Michihiro Yasunaga, Rui Zhang, Kshitijh Meelu, Ayush Pareek, Krishnan Srinivasan, and Dragomir Radev. 2017. Graph-based neural multi-document
summarization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1706.06681 (2017).
[79] Hainan Zhang, Yanyan Lan, Liang Pang, Hongshen Chen, Zhuoye Ding, and Dawei Yin. 2020. Modeling Topical Relevance for Multi-Turn Dialogue
Generation. In IJCAI.
[80] Ruqing Zhang, Jiafeng Guo, Yixing Fan, Yanyan Lan, and Xueqi Cheng. 2020. Structure Learning for Headline Generation.. In AAAI. 9555–9562.
[81] Xueliang Zhao, Wei Wu, Chongyang Tao, Can Xu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2020. Low-Resource Knowledge-Grounded Dialogue Generation. In
ICLR.
[82] Xin Wayne Zhao, Yanwei Guo, Rui Yan, Yulan He, and Xiaoming Li. 2013. Timeline generation with social attention. In SIGIR. ACM, 1061–1064.
[83] Ming Zhong, Pengfei Liu, Yiran Chen, Danqing Wang, Xipeng Qiu, and Xuanjing Huang. 2020. Extractive Summarization as Text Matching. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2004.08795 (2020).
[84] Xiao Zhou, Cecilia Mascolo, and Zhongxiang Zhao. 2019. Topic-Enhanced Memory Networks for Personalised Point-of-Interest Recommendation.
In KDD.
[85] Junnan Zhu, Y. Zhou, Jiajun Zhang, and Chengqing Zong. 2020. Attend, Translate and Summarize: An Efficient Method for Neural Cross-Lingual
Summarization. In ACL.

Manuscript submitted to ACM

