arXiv:2011.03322v1 [cs.CL] 5 Nov 2020

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog
SHEN GAO, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University
XIUYING CHEN, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University
LI LIU, Inception Institute of Artificial Intelligence
DONGYAN ZHAO, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University
RUI YAN∗ , 1 Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence, Renmin University of China; 2 Wangxuan Institute of Computer
Technology, Peking University
Stickers with vivid and engaging expressions are becoming increasingly popular in online messaging apps, and some works are
dedicated to automatically select sticker response by matching the stickers image with previous utterances. However, existing methods
usually focus on measuring the matching degree between the dialog context and sticker image, which ignores the user preference
of using stickers. Hence, in this paper, we propose to recommend an appropriate sticker to user based on multi-turn dialog context
and sticker using history of user. Two main challenges are confronted in this task. One is to model the sticker preference of user
based on the previous sticker selection history. Another challenge is to jointly fuse the user preference and the matching between
dialog context and candidate sticker into final prediction making. To tackle these challenges, we propose a Preference Enhanced Sticker
Response Selector (PESRS) model. Specifically, PESRS first employs a convolutional based sticker image encoder and a self-attention
based multi-turn dialog encoder to obtain the representation of stickers and utterances. Next, deep interaction network is proposed to
conduct deep matching between the sticker and each utterance. Then, we model the user preference by using the recently selected
stickers as input, and use a key-value memory network to store the preference representation. PESRS then learns the short-term and
long-term dependency between all interaction results by a fusion network, and dynamically fuse the user preference representation
into the final sticker selection prediction. Extensive experiments conducted on a large-scale real-world dialog dataset show that our
model achieves the state-of-the-art performance for all commonly-used metrics. Experiments also verify the effectiveness of each
component of PESRS.
CCS Concepts: • Information systems → Multimedia content creation; Retrieval models and ranking.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: sticker selection, user modeling, multi-turn dialog
∗ Corresponding Author: Rui Yan (ruiyan@pku.edu.cn)

Authors’ addresses: Shen Gao, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University, shengao@pku.edu.cn; Xiuying Chen, Wangxuan Institute
of Computer Technology, Peking University, xy-chen@pku.edu.cn; Li Liu, Inception Institute of Artificial Intelligence, liuli1213@gmail.com; Dongyan
Zhao, Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University, zhaody@pku.edu.cn; Rui Yan, 1 Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence, Renmin
University of China; 2 Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University, ruiyan@pku.edu.cn.

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to
redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2020 Association for Computing Machinery.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Manuscript submitted to ACM

1

2

Shen Gao, et al.

Fig. 1. An example of stickers in a multi-turn dialog. Sticker response selector automatically selects the proper sticker based on
multi-turn dialog history.

ACM Reference Format:
Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Li Liu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2020. Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework
of Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog. ACM Transactions on Information Systems 1, 1, Article 1
(January 2020), 33 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/1122445.1122456

1

INTRODUCTION

Images (a.k.a.,graphicon) are another important approach for expressing feelings and emotions in addition to using text
in communication. In mobile messaging apps, these images can generally be classified into emojis and stickers. Emoji is
a kind of small picture which is already stored in most of the keyboard of the mobile operational systems, i.e.,iOS or
Android. Emojis are pre-designed by the mobile phone vendor (now it is managed by standards organization) and the
number of emoji is limited, and users can not design emoji by themselves. Different with the inflexible emojis, sticker
is image or graphicon essentially [14, 25, 33], which users can draw or modify images as a sticker and upload to the
chatting app by themselves. The using of stickers on online chatting usually brings diversity of expressing emotion.
Since emojis are sometimes used to help reinforce simple emotions in a text message due to their small size, and their
variety is limited. Stickers, on the other hand, can be regarded as an alternative for text messages, which usually include
cartoon characters and are of high definition. They can express much more complex and vivid emotion than emojis.
Most messaging apps, such as WeChat, Telegram, WhatsApp, and Slack provide convenient ways for users to download
stickers for free, or even share self-designed ones. We show a chat window including stickers in Figure 1.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

3

Stickers are becoming more and more popular in online chat. First, sending a sticker with a single click is much more
convenient than typing text on the 26-letter keyboard of a small mobile phone screen. Second, there are many implicit
or strong emotions that are difficult to express in words but can be captured by stickers with vivid facial expressions
and body language. However, the large scale use of stickers means that it is not always straightforward to think of the
sticker that best expresses one’s feeling according to the current chatting context. Users need to recall all the stickers
they have collected and selected the appropriate one, which is both difficult and time-consuming.
Consequently, much research has focused on recommending appropriate emojis to users according to the chatting
context. Existing works such as [80], are mostly based on emoji recommendation, where they predict the probable emoji
given the contextual information from multi-turn dialog systems. In contrast, other works [6, 7] recommend emojis
based on the text and images posted by a user. As for sticker recommendation, existing works such as [42] and apps
like Hike or QQ directly match the text typed by the user to the short text tag assigned to each sticker. However, since
there are lots of ways of expressing the same emotion, it is very hard to capture all variants of an utterance as tags.
To overcome the drawbacks, we propose a sticker response selector (SRS) for sticker selection in our early work [22],
where we address the task of sticker response selection in multi-turn dialog. We focus on the two main challenges in
this work: (1) Since existing image recognition methods are mostly built with real-world images, and how to capture
the semantic meaning of sticker is challenging. (2) Understanding multi-turn dialog history information is crucial for
sticker recommendation, and jointly modeling the candidate sticker with multi-turn dialog is challenging. Herein, we
propose a novel sticker recommendation model, namely sticker response selector (SRS), for sticker response selection in
multi-turn dialog. Specifically, SRS first learns representations of dialog context history using a self-attention mechanism
and learns the sticker representation by a convolutional neural network (CNN). Next, SRS conducts deep matching
between the sticker and each utterance and produces the interaction results for every utterance. Finally, SRS employs a
fusion network which consists of a sub-network fusion RNN and fusion transformer to learn the short and long term
dependency of the utterance interaction results. The final matching score is calculated by an interaction function. To
evaluate the performance of our model, we propose a large number of multi-turn dialog dataset associated with stickers
from one of the popular messaging apps. Extensive experiments conducted on this dataset show that SRS significantly
outperforms the state-of-the-art baseline methods in commonly-used metrics.
However, the user’s sticker selection does not only depend on the matching degree between dialog context and
candidate sticker image, but also depends on the user’s preference of using sticker. When users decide to use a sticker
as their response in multi-turn dialog, they may choose their favorite one from all appropriate stickers as the final
response. We assume that user tends to use the recently used sticker in their dialog history, and the recently-used-sticker
can represent the user’s preference of sticker selection. An example is shown in Figure 2. To verify this assumption,
we retrieve 10 recently-used-stickers of each user and calculate the proportion of whether the currently used sticker
appeared in these 10 stickers. The result shows that 54.09% of the stickers exist in the 10 recently used sticker set. Hence,
we reach to the conclusion that users have strong personal preference when selecting the sticker as their response for
the current dialog context. However, in some cases, this also indicates a tendency to re-use stickers, but not necessarily
a preference.
Motivated by this observation, in this work, we take one step further and improve our previously proposed SRS
framework with user preference modeling. Overall, we propose a novel sticker recommendation model which considers
the user preference, namely Preference Enhanced Sticker Response Selector (PESRS). Specifically, PESRS first employs
a convolutional network to extract features from the candidate stickers. Then, we retrieve the recent user sticker
selections then a user preference modeling module is employed to obtain a user preference representation. Next, we
Manuscript submitted to ACM

4

Shen Gao, et al.

conduct the deep matching between the candidate sticker and each utterance as the same as SRS. Finally, we use a
gated fusion method to combine the deep matching result and user preference into final sticker prediction.

Fig. 2. User’s history dialog context and the selected sticker. Four figures in the left history dialog context and the selected sticker,
and the right one the current dialog context with the user selected sticker. User tends to use the same sticker when the dialog context
is semantically similar.

The key to the success of PESRS lies in how to design the user preference modeling module, which should not only
identify the user’s favorite sticker and but also consider the current dialog context. Motivated by this, we first propose
a recurrent neural network (RNN) based position-aware sticker modeling module which encodes the recently used
stickers in chronological order. Then, we employ a key-value memory network to store these sticker representations as
values and the corresponding dialog context as keys. Finally, we use the current dialog context to query the key-value
memory and obtain the dynamic user preference of the current dialog context.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

5

We empirically compare PESRS and SRS on the public dataset1 proposed by our early work [22]. This is a large-scale
real-world Chinese multi-turn dialog dataset, which dialog context is multiple text utterances and the response is
a sticker image. Experimental results show that on this dataset, our newly proposed PESRS model can significantly
outperform the existing methods. Particularly, PESRS yields 4.8% and 7.1% percentage point improvement in terms of
𝑀𝐴𝑃 and 𝑅10 @1 compared with our early work SRS. In addition to the comprehensive evaluation, we also evaluate our
proposed user preference memory by a fine-grained analysis. The analysis reveals how the model leverages the user’s
recent sticker selection history and provides us insights on why they can achieve big improvement over state-of-the-art
methods.
This work is a substantial extension of our previous work reported at WWW 2020. The extension in this article
includes the user preference modeling framework for the existing methods, a proposal of a new framework for sticker
selection in the multi-turn dialog. Specifically, the contributions of this work include the following:
• We propose a position-aware sticker modeling module which can model the user’s sticker selection history.
• We propose a key-value memory network to store the user’s recently used stickers and its corresponding dialog
context.
• Finally, we use the current dialog context to query the key-value memory and obtain a user preference representation, and then fuse the user preference representation into final sticker prediction dynamically.
• Experiments conducted on a large-scale real-world dataset show that our model outperforms all baselines,
including state-of-the-art models. Experiments also verify the effectiveness of each module in PESRS as well as
its interpretability.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: We summarize related work in §2. §3 introduces the data collection
method and some statistics of our proposed multi-turn dialog sticker selection dataset. We then formulate our research
problem in §4 and elaborate our approach in §5. §6 gives the details of our experimental setup and §7 presents the
experimental results. Finally, §8 concludes the paper.
2

RELATED WORK

We outline related work on sticker recommendation, user modeling, visual question answering, visual dialog, and
multi-turn response selection.
2.1

Sticker and Emoji Recommendation

Most of the previous works emphasize the use of emojis instead of stickers. For example, [6, 7] use a multimodal approach
to recommend emojis based on the text and images in an Instagram post. [28] propose a MultiLabel-RandomForest
algorithm to predict emojis based on the private instant messages. [88] conduct emoji prediction on social media
text (e.g.,Sina Weibo and Twitter), and they tackle this task as ranking among all emojis. The total number of unique
emojis in their dataset is 50, which is much smaller than the number of stickers. What is more, emojis are limited in
variety, while there exists an abundance of different stickers. [92] incorporates the emoji information into the dialog
generation task, and they use the emoji classification as an auxiliary task to facilitate the dialog generation to produce
utterance with proper emotion. The most similar work to ours is [42], where they generate recommended stickers by
first predicting the next message the user is likely to send in the chat, and then substituting it with an appropriate
sticker.
1 https://github.com/gsh199449/stickerchat

Manuscript submitted to ACM

6

Shen Gao, et al.
However, more often than not the implication of the stickers cannot be fully conveyed by text and, in this paper, we

focus on directly generating sticker recommendations from dialog history.
2.2

User Modeling

User modeling [36, 58, 86, 94, 95] is a hot research topic especially in recommendation task, which models the preference
of user based on the user history interaction data. Specifically, in the e-commerce recommendation task [35, 43, 59], the
user modeling systems use the purchase history or click records to model the user’s intrinsic interest and temporal
interest [57, 87]. Most of the research typically utilize user-item binary relations, and assume a flat preference distribution
over items for each user. They neglect the hierarchical discrimination between user intentions and user preferences.
Zhu et al. [93] propose a novel key-array memory network with user-intention-item triadic relations, which takes both
user intentions and preferences into account for the next-item recommendation. As for the user modeling in the news
recommendation task, there are much side information can be used to obtain better user preference representation. Wu
et al. [75] propose a neural news recommendation approach which can exploit heterogeneous user behaviors, including
the search queries and the browsed webpages of the user.
However, to model the user preference of sticker selection, we should not only model the sticker selection history,
and the dialog context of each selected sticker should also be considered when modeling the user preference.
2.3

Memory Networks

The memory network proposed by Sukhbaatar et al. [62] generally consists of two components. The first one is a
memory matrix to save information (i.e.,memory slots) and the second one is a neural network to read/write the memory
slots. The memory network has shown better performance than traditional long-short term memory network in several
tasks, such as question answering [18, 49, 56, 62], machine translation [51], text summarization [9, 23, 39], dialog
system [11, 76] and recommendation [15, 70, 91]. The reason is that the memory network can store the information in
a long time range and has more memory storage units than LSTM which has the single hidden state. Follow memory
network, there are many variations of memory network have been proposed, i.e.,key-value memory network [52]
and dynamic memory network [41, 81]. Our method is mainly based on the key-value memory network [52], which
employs the user history dialog contexts as the memory keys and the corresponding selected stickers the memory
values. However, there are two main differences between our PESRS model and the previous key-value memory network.
First, the user history data is in chronological order, we should consider the time information when storing them into
the memory. To recommend more accurate stickers, the model should not only consider the user preference information
stored in the memory, but also incorporates the matching result between current dialog context and candidate stickers.
The second difference lies in that we propose a dynamic fusion layer that considers both the memory read output and
the matching result of the current context. Compared with these methods, we not only implement a key-value memory
network, but also provide a sticker selection framework that could incorporate the user’s preference.
2.4

Visual Question Answering

Sticker recommendation involves the representation of and interaction between images and text, which is related to the
Visual Question Answering (VQA) task [19, 26, 47, 55, 60, 61, 69]. Specifically, VQA takes an image and a corresponding
natural language question as input and outputs the answer. It is a classification problem in which candidate answers
are restricted to the most common answers appearing in the dataset and requires deep analysis and understanding of
images and questions such as image recognition and object localization [27, 50, 77, 82]. Current models can be classified
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

7

into three main categories: early fusion models, later fusion models, and external knowledge-based models. One
state-of-the-art VQA model is [46], which proposes an architecture, positional self-attention with co-attention, that does
not require a recurrent neural network (RNN) for video question answering. [30] proposes an image-question-answer
synergistic network, where candidate answers are coarsely scored according to their relevance to the image and question
pair in the first stage. Then, answers with a high probability of being correct are re-ranked by synergizing with images
and questions.
The difference between sticker selection and VQA task is that the sticker selection task focus more on multi-turn
multimodal interaction between stickers and utterances.
2.5

Visual Dialog

Visual dialog extends the single turn dialog task [29, 53, 64] in VQA to a multi-turn one, where later questions may be
related to former question-answer pairs. To solve this task, [48] transfers knowledge from a pre-trained discriminative
network to a generative network with an RNN encoder, using a perceptual loss. [78] combines reinforcement learning
and generative adversarial networks (GANs) to generate more human-like responses to questions, where the GAN helps
overcome the relative paucity of training data, and the tendency of the typical maximum-likelihood-estimation-based
approach to generate overly terse answers. [37] demonstrates a simple symmetric discriminative baseline that can be
applied to both predicting an answer as well as predicting a question in the visual dialog.
Unlike visual dialog tasks, in a sticker recommendation system, the candidates are stickers rather than text.
2.6

Multi-turn Response Selection

Multi-turn response selection [8, 17, 45, 66, 83–85] takes a message and utterances in its previous turns as input and
selects a response that is natural and relevant to the whole context. In our task, we also need to take previous multi-turn
dialog into consideration. Previous works include [89], which uses an RNN to represent context and response, and
measure their relevance. More recently, [79] matches a response with each utterance in the context on multiple levels of
granularity, and the vectors are then combined through an RNN. The final matching score is calculated by the hidden
states of the RNN. [90] extends this work by considering the matching with dependency information. More recently,
[65] proposes a multi-representation fusion network where the representations can be fused into matching at an early
stage, an intermediate stage, or at the last stage.
Traditional multi-turn response selection deals with pure natural language processing, while in our task, we also
need to obtain a deep understanding of images.
3

DATASET

In this section, we introduce our multi-turn dialog dataset with sticker as response in detail.
3.1

Data Collection

We collect the large-scale multi-turn dialog dataset with stickers from one of the most popular messaging apps,
Telegram2 . In this app, a large amount of sticker sets are published, and everyone can use the sticker when chatting
with a friend or in a chat group. Specifically, we select 20 public chat groups consisting of active members, which are all
open groups that everyone can join it without any authorities. The chat history of these groups is collected along with
2 https://telegram.org/

Manuscript submitted to ACM

8

Shen Gao, et al.
Table 1. Statistics of Response Selection Dataset.

# context-stickers pairs
Avg. words of context utterance
Avg. users participate

Train

Valid

Test

320,168
7.54
5.81

10,000
7.50
5.81

10,000
7.42
5.79

(0.2,0.4]

(0.4,0.6]

      
      

4000

Count

   R I  V D P S O H V

      
      
      

2000

     
     
     

0

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 8 V H U  K L V W R U \  O H Q J W K

(a) The distribution of history length in training dataset.

(0,0.2]

(0.6,0.8]

Sticker Similarity

(0.8,1.0]

(b) Similarity distribution among all stickers in test dataset.

Fig. 3. Statistics of dataset.

the complete sticker sets. These sticker sets include stickers with similar style. All stickers are resized to a uniform
size of 128 × 128 pixels. We use 20 utterances before the sticker response as the dialog context, and then we filter out
irrelevant utterance sentences, such as URL links and attached files. Due to privacy concern, we also filter out user
information and anonymize user IDs. To construct negative samples, 9 stickers other than the ground truth sticker are
randomly sampled from the sticker set. After pre-processing, there are 320,168 context-sticker pairs in the training
dataset, 10,000 pairs in the validation, and 10,000 pairs in test datasets respectively. We make sure that there is no
overlap between these three datasets, there is no the same dialog context in any two datasets. Two examples are shown
in Figure 4. We publish this dataset to communities to facilitate further research on dialog response selection task.
3.2

Statistics and Analysis

In total, there are 3,516 sets of sticker which contain 174,695 stickers. The average number of stickers in a sticker set is
49.64. Each context includes 15.5 utterances on average. The average number of users who participate in the dialog
context over each dataset is shown in the third row of Table 1.
Since not all the users have history dialog data, we calculate the percentage of how many data samples in our dataset
have history data. There are 290939 data samples in our training dataset which have at lease one history sticker selection
history, and the percentage is 88.12%. We set the maximum of retrieved history data pair (consisting of dialog context
and selected sticker) for one data sample to 10, and the average of history length in our training dataset is 6.82. We also
plot the distribution of history length in Figure 3(a).
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog
Case 1 (AVG. 0.125)

9
Case 2 (AVG. 0.702)

你好像挺喜欢⽤这个表情包的呀
You seem to like using this sticker set very much.
是的，app官⽅的表情包做得很好，深得我⼼

Yes, the ofﬁcial sticker set of this app is designed very well
and win my heart.
app
I like the ofﬁcial sticker sets too.

我也挺喜欢 官⽅的表情包

⾥的
参数是什么意思？怎么⽤？
指的是 的那个吧
呃呃呃 ，是的 感谢
哈哈，成功了？
Haha, have you succeeded?
恩恩

wsSettings
Header
What is the Header parameter in wsSettings? how to use?
http
It probably means the parameter of HTTP.
...
Ummm, yes, thanks.

Yes.

Fig. 4. Example cases in the dataset with different similarity scores.

3.3

Sticker Similarity

Stickers in the same set always share a same style or contain the same cartoon characters. Intuitively, the more similar
the candidate stickers are, the more difficult it is to choose the correct sticker from candidates. In other words, the
similarity between candidate stickers determines the difficulty of the sticker selection task. To investigate the difficulty
of this task, we calculate the average similarity of all the stickers in a specific sticker set by the Structural Similarity
Index (SSIM) metric [3, 72]. We first calculate the similarity between the ground truth sticker and each negative sample,
then average the similarity scores. The similarity distribution among test data is shown in Figure 3(b), where the average
similarity is 0.258. The examples in Figure 4 are also used to illustrate the similarity of stickers more intuitively, where
the left one has a relatively low similarity score, and the right one has a high similarity score.
4

PROBLEM FORMULATION

Before presenting our approach for sticker response selection in multi-turn dialog, we first introduce our notations and
key concepts. Table 2 lists the main notations we use.
Similar to the multi-turn dialog response selection [79, 90], we assume that there is a multi-turn dialog context
𝑠 = {𝑢 1, . . . , 𝑢𝑇𝑢 } and a candidate sticker set 𝐶 = {𝑐 1, ...𝑐𝑇𝑐 }, where 𝑢𝑖 represents the 𝑖-th utterance in the multi-turn
dialog. In the 𝑖-th utterance 𝑢𝑖 = {𝑥 1𝑖 , . . . , 𝑥 𝑖 𝑖 }, 𝑥 𝑖𝑗 represents the 𝑗-th word in 𝑢𝑖 , and 𝑇𝑥𝑖 represents the total number of
𝑇𝑥

words in 𝑢𝑖 utterance. In dialog context 𝑠, 𝑐𝑖 represents a sticker image with a binary label 𝑦𝑖 , indicating whether 𝑐𝑖 is
an appropriate response for 𝑠. 𝑇𝑢 is the number of utterance in the dialog context and 𝑇𝑐 is the number of candidate
stickers. For each candidate set, there is only one ground truth sticker, and the remaining ones are negative samples.
To model the user preference, we use 𝑇ℎ history dialog contexts with user selected sticker {(𝑠ˆ1, 𝑐ˆ1 ), . . . , (𝑠ˆ𝑇ℎ , 𝑐ˆ𝑇ℎ )},
where 𝑠ˆ𝑖 denotes the 𝑖-th history dialog context and 𝑐ˆ𝑖 denotes the user selected sticker at 𝑖-th history dialog context. In
the remaining of the paper, we use the word current to denotes the dialog context 𝑠 and sticker 𝑐𝑖 which the model
needs to predict the sticker selection, and we use the word history to denote the dialog context and sticker which
user has generated before. In the 𝑘-th history, there is a dialog context 𝑠ˆ𝑘 = {𝑢ˆ𝑖𝑘 , . . . , 𝑢ˆ𝑇𝑘 } which contains up to 𝑇𝑢
𝑢

utterances as the same as current dialog context 𝑠, and a user selected sticker 𝑐ˆ𝑘 . For each dialog history, we pad the
Manuscript submitted to ACM

10

Shen Gao, et al.
Table 2. Glossary.

Symbol

Description

𝑠
𝑢𝑖
𝑇𝑢
𝑥 𝑖𝑗
𝑇𝑥𝑖
𝐶
𝑐𝑖
𝑇𝑐
𝑦𝑖
𝑠ˆ𝑘
𝑢ˆ𝑖𝑘
𝑥ˆ𝑘,𝑖
𝑗
𝑐ˆ𝑘
𝑇ℎ

multi-turn dialog context
𝑖-th utterance in 𝑠
number of utterances in dialog context
𝑗-th word in 𝑖-th utterance 𝑢𝑖
number of words in the 𝑖-th utterance
candidate sticker set
𝑖-th candidate sticker in 𝑐
number of stickers in candidate sticker set 𝑐
the selection label of 𝑖-th sticker 𝑐𝑖
𝑘-th multi-turn dialog context in history
𝑖-th utterance in 𝑘-th history context 𝑠ˆ𝑘
𝑗-th word in 𝑖-th utterance 𝑢ˆ𝑖𝑘 of 𝑘-th history context
user selected sticker of 𝑘-th history
number of history dialog context and selected sticker

dialog context which number of utterances is less than 𝑇𝑢 to 𝑇𝑢 . Our goal is to learn a ranking model that can produce
the correct ranking for each candidate sticker 𝑐𝑖 ; that is, can select the correct sticker among all the other candidates.
For the rest of the paper, we take the 𝑖-th candidate sticker 𝑐𝑖 as an example to illustrate the details of our model and
omit the candidate index 𝑖 for brevity. In some of the sticker selection scenarios, the stickers in the preceding dialog
context may affect the current decision of sticker selection. But in most cases, the sticker selection is influenced by a
few utterances before. Thus, in this paper, we focus on modeling the text utterances in dialog context. And we will
consider the information provided by the stickers in the preceding context in our future work.
5

PESRS MODEL

5.1

Overview

In this section, we propose our preference enhanced sticker response selector, abbreviated as PESRS. An overview of
PESRS is shown in Figure 5, which can be split into five main parts:
• Sticker encoder is a convolutional neural network (CNN) based image encoding module that learns a sticker
representation.
• Utterance encoder is a self-attention mechanism-based module encoding each utterance 𝑢𝑖 in the multi-turn
dialog context 𝑠.
• User preference modeling module is a key-value memory network that stores the representation of history dialog
context and corresponding selected sticker.
• Deep interaction network module conducts deep matching between each sticker representation and each utterance,
and outputs each interaction result.
• Fusion network learns the short-term dependency by the fusion RNN and the long-term dependency by the
fusion Transformer, and finally outputs the matching score by combining the current interaction results with
user preference representation using a gated fusion layer.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

Utterance1

(4) Deep interaction
network

Fusion
RNN

(2) Utterance Encoder

RNN

(4) Deep interaction
network

Great! I love
shopping.

Utterance3

(5) Fusion Network

(2) Utterance Encoder

What about we
go shopping?

Utterance2

11

Fusion
Transformer

(2) Utterance Encoder

(4) Deep interaction
network

What about
you, Lisa?

(1) Sticker Encoder
Sticker
Selection

Sticker

History
Dialog
Context 1

Utterance Encoder

History
Dialog
Context 2

Utterance Encoder

History
Dialog
Context 3

Utterance Encoder

Dynamic
Fusion

User Preference
Memory
(1) Sticker Encoder

(1) Sticker Encoder

(1) Sticker Encoder

(3) User Preference Modeling Module

Fig. 5. Overview of PESRS. We divide our model into five ingredients: (1) Sticker encoder learns sticker representation by a convolutional
neural network; (2) Utterance encoder learns representation of each utterance by self-attention based Transformer; (3) User preference
modeling module obtains the position-aware history representations and store them into a key-value memory network; (4) Deep
interaction network conducts deep matching interaction between sticker representation and utterance representation in different
levels of granularity; (5) Fusion network combines the long-term and short-term dependency feature between interaction results
produced by (4) and the user preference representation produced by (3) into final sticker prediction layer.

5.2

Sticker Encoder

Much research has been conducted to alleviate gradient vanishing [32] and reduce computational costs [31] in image
modeling tasks. We utilize one of these models, i.e.,the Inception-v3 [63] model rather than plain CNN to encode sticker
image:
𝑂, 𝑂 flat = Inception-v3(𝑐),

(1)

where 𝑐 is the sticker image. The sticker representation is 𝑂 ∈ R𝑝×𝑝×𝑑 which conserves the two-dimensional information
of the sticker, and will be used when associating stickers and utterances in §5.4. We use the original image representation
output of Inception-v3 𝑂 flat ∈ R𝑑 as another sticker representation. Most imaging grounded tasks [38, 73, 74] employ the
pre-trained image encoding model to produce the image representation. However, existing pre-trained CNN networks
Manuscript submitted to ACM

12

Shen Gao, et al.

including Inception-v3 are mostly built on real-world photos. Thus, directly applying the pre-trained networks on
stickers cannot speed up the training process. In this dataset, sticker author give each sticker 𝑐 an emoji tag which
denotes the general emotion of the sticker. Hereby, we propose an auxiliary sticker classification task to help the model
converge quickly, which uses 𝑂 flat to predict which emoji is attached to the corresponding sticker. More specifically, we
feed 𝑂 flat into a linear classification layer and then use the cross-entropy loss L𝑠 as the loss function of this classification
task.
5.3

Utterance Encoder

To model the semantic meaning of the dialog context, we learn the representation of each utterance 𝑢𝑖 . First, we use
an embedding matrix 𝑒 to map a one-hot representation of each word in each utterance 𝑢𝑖 to a high-dimensional
vector space. We also add the positional embedding to the original word embedding, and we use the 𝑒 (𝑥 𝑖𝑗 ) to denote
the embedding representation of word 𝑥 𝑖𝑗 . The positional embedding is the same as Transformer [68]. From these
embedding representations, we use the attentive module with positional encoding from Transformer [68] to model the
interactions between the words in an utterance. Attention mechanisms have become an integral part of compelling
sequence modeling in various tasks [5, 16, 21, 46]. In our sticker selection task, we also need to let words fully interact
with each other words to model the dependencies of words in the input sentence. The self attentive module in the
Transformer requires three inputs: the query 𝑄, the key 𝐾 and the value 𝑉 . To obtain these three inputs, we use three
linear layers with different parameters to project the embedding of dialog context 𝑒 (𝑥 𝑖𝑗 ) into three spaces:
𝑄 𝑖𝑗 = 𝐹𝐶 (𝑒 (𝑥 𝑖𝑗 )),

(2)

𝐾 𝑖𝑗 = 𝐹𝐶 (𝑒 (𝑥 𝑖𝑗 )),
𝑉 𝑗𝑖 = 𝐹𝐶 (𝑒 (𝑥 𝑖𝑗 )).

(3)
(4)
𝑖

The self attentive module then takes each 𝑄 𝑖𝑗 to attend to 𝐾 𝑖· , and uses these attention distribution 𝛼 𝑖𝑗,· ∈ R𝑇𝑥 as weights
to gain the weighted sum of 𝑉 𝑗𝑖 , as shown in Equation 6.


exp 𝑄 𝑖𝑗 · 𝐾𝑘𝑖
𝛼 𝑖𝑗,𝑘 = Í 𝑖

,
𝑇𝑥
𝑖
𝑖
𝑛=1 exp 𝑄 𝑗 · 𝐾𝑛
𝛽 𝑖𝑗 =

𝑖
𝑇
𝑥
∑︁

𝛼 𝑖𝑗,𝑘 · 𝑉𝑘𝑖 ,

(5)

(6)

𝑘=1

Next, we add the original word embedding 𝑒 (𝑥 𝑖𝑗 ) on 𝛽 𝑖𝑗 as the residential connection layer, shown in Equation 7:


ℎˆ𝑖𝑗 = Dropout 𝑒 (𝑥 𝑖𝑗 ) + 𝛽 𝑖𝑗 ,

(7)

where 𝛼 𝑖𝑗,𝑘 denotes the attention weight between 𝑗-th word to 𝑘-th word in 𝑖-th utterance. To prevent vanishing or
exploding of gradients, a layer normalization operation [44] is also applied on the output of the feed-forward layers
with ReLU activation as shown in Equation 8:


ℎ𝑖𝑗 = norm 𝑚𝑎𝑥 (0, ℎˆ𝑖𝑗 · 𝑊1 + 𝑏 1 ) · 𝑊2 + 𝑏 2 + ℎˆ𝑖𝑗 ,

(8)

where 𝑊1,𝑊2, 𝑏 1, 𝑏 2 are all trainable parameters of the feed-forward layer. ℎ𝑖𝑗 denotes the hidden state of 𝑗-th word for
the 𝑖-th utterance in the Transformer. We also employ the multi-head attention is our model which conducts these
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

13

(4) Deep interatction network
Co-attention

Relation Matrix

utterance-aware
sticker
representation

Utterance 1

Integrate
Function

FC

Fusion
Network

sticker-aware
utterance
representation

Fig. 6. Framework of deep interaction network.

operation multiple times and then concatenate the outputs as the final representation. For brevity, we omit these
multi-head operation in our equations.
5.4

Deep Interaction Network

Now that we obtain the representation of the sticker and each utterance, we can conduct a deep matching between
these components to model the bi-directional relationship between the words in dialog context and the sticker patches.
On one hand, there are some emotional words in dialog context history that match the expression of the stickers such
as “happy” or “sad”. On the other hand, specific parts of the sticker can also match these corresponding words such as
dancing limbs or streaming eyes. Hence, we employ a bi-directional attention mechanism between a sticker and each
utterance, that is, from utterance to sticker and from sticker to utterance, to analyze the cross-dependency between the
two components. The interaction is illustrated in Figure 6.
We take the 𝑖-th utterance as an example and omit the index 𝑖 for brevity. The two directed attentions are derived from
2

a shared relation matrix, 𝑀 ∈ R (𝑝 )×𝑇𝑢 , calculated by sticker representation 𝑂 ∈ R𝑝×𝑝×𝑑 and utterance representation
ℎ ∈ R𝑇𝑢 ×𝑑 . The score 𝑀𝑘 𝑗 ∈ R in the relation matrix 𝑀 indicates the relation between the 𝑘-th sticker representation
unit 𝑂𝑘 , 𝑘 ∈ [1, 𝑝 2 ] and the 𝑗-th word ℎ 𝑗 , 𝑗 ∈ [1,𝑇𝑢 ] and is computed as:
𝑀𝑘 𝑗 = 𝜎 (𝑂𝑘 , ℎ 𝑗 ),

(9)

⊺

(10)

𝜎 (𝑥, 𝑦) = 𝑤 [𝑥 ⊕ 𝑦 ⊕ (𝑥 ⊗ 𝑦)],

where 𝜎 is a trainable scalar function that encodes the relation between two input vectors. ⊕ denotes a concatenation
operation and ⊗ is the element-wise multiplication.
Next, a two-way max pooling operation is conducted on 𝑀, i.e.,let 𝜏 𝑢𝑗 = max(𝑀:𝑗 ) ∈ R represent the attention weight
on the 𝑗-th utterance word by the sticker representation, corresponding to the “utterance-wise attention”. This attention
learns to assign high weights to the important words that are closely related to sticker. We then obtain the weighted
Manuscript submitted to ACM

14

Shen Gao, et al.

sum of hidden states as “sticker-aware utterance representation” 𝑙:
𝑙=

𝑇𝑢
∑︁

𝜏 𝑢𝑗 ℎ 𝑗 .

(11)

𝑗

Similarly, sticker-wise attention learns which part of a sticker is most relevant to the utterance. Let 𝜏𝑘𝑠 = max(𝑀𝑘: ) ∈ R
represent the attention weight on the 𝑘-th unit of the sticker representation. We use this to obtain the weighted sum of
𝑂𝑘 , i.e.,the “utterance-aware sticker representation” 𝑟 :
𝑟=

2
𝑝
∑︁

𝜏𝑘𝑠 𝑂𝑘 .

(12)

𝑘

After obtaining the two outputs from the co-attention module, we combine the sticker and utterance representations
and finally get the ranking result. We first integrate the utterance-aware sticker representation 𝑟 with the original
sticker representation 𝑂 flat using an integrate function, named 𝐼 𝐹 :
𝑄 1 = IF (𝑂 flat, 𝑟 ) ,
IF(𝑥, 𝑦) = FC (𝑥 ⊕ 𝑦 ⊕ (𝑥 ⊗ 𝑦) ⊕ (𝑥 + 𝑦)) ,

(13)
(14)

where FC denotes the fully-connected (FC) layer and we use the ReLU [54] as the activation function, ⊕ represents the
vector concatenation along the final dimension of the vector and ⊗ denotes the elementwise product operation. We
add the sticker-aware utterance representation 𝑙 into 𝑄 1 together and then apply a fully-connected layer with ReLU
activation:
𝑄 2 = FC(𝑄 1 ⊕ 𝑙).
5.5

(15)

User Preference Modeling Module

Users have their preference when selecting the sticker as the response of the multi-turn dialog context. Hence, to
recommend the sticker more accurately, our model should consider the user’s preference when giving the final sticker
recommendation. Intuitively, the sticker that selected by the user recently contains the user’s preference, and these
history data can help our model to build the preference representation. As for constructing the preference modeling
module, our motivation is to find the semantically similar dialog contexts in the history data, and then use the
corresponding selected stickers of these dialog contexts to facilitate the final sticker prediction of the current dialog
context. Hence, we propose the user preference memory and the architecture of this module as shown in Figure 7. The
proposed user preference memory unit inherits from memory networks [10, 24, 67, 70], and generally has two steps: (1)
memory addressing and (2) memory reading. The user preference memory consists of a set of history multi-turn dialog
contexts and selected stickers. Though one action is corresponding to a dialog context, it should attend to the different
history contexts (i.e.,memory slots) upon the current dialog context. Thus, we address and read the memory unit as
follows.
5.5.1 History Encoding. To store the history dialog contexts and selected stickers, we encode them into vector spaces
using the same method as used when encoding current dialog context and candidate stickers. Concretely, first, attentive
module is employed to encode all the dialog contexts {ˆ𝑠 1, . . . , 𝑠ˆ𝑇ℎ }:
𝑘

ℎ𝑖 = mean-pooling(Transformer(𝑢ˆ𝑖𝑘 )),
Manuscript submitted to ACM

(16)

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog
Memory Key

History
Dialog
Context

15
Memory Value

Memory
Addressing
...

...

...

Position-aware
RNN

Memory
Reading

...

...

History
Selected
Sticker

Position-aware
RNN

Query

Memory
Read Out

Reading
Weights

Fig. 7. Framework of user preference modeling module which consists a position-aware RNN and a key-value memory network. We
use the history dialog contexts as the keys and the history selected stickers as the values. Finally, we use the representation of the
current dialog context as the query the user preference memory.
𝑘

where ℎ𝑖 is the vector representation of the 𝑖-th utterance in the 𝑘-th history, the Transformer is the same operation
as shown in Equation 2-Equation 8. Different with the Transformer used in Equation 2, the query, key and value in
Equation 16 are all 𝑢ˆ𝑖𝑘 , where we conduct self-attention over all history dialog contexts. Then, we use a max-pooling
𝑘

layer to obtain the vector representation ℎ of the 𝑘-th dialog context in history:
𝑘

𝑘

𝑘

ℎ = max({ℎ 1 , . . . , ℎ𝑇ℎ }).

(17)

Next, we use the same image encoder Inception-v3 in § 5.2 to encode all the stickers {𝑐ˆ1, . . . , 𝑐ˆ𝑇ℎ } of each history
dialog context into vector representations {𝑂 1, . . . , 𝑂𝑇ℎ }:
𝑂 𝑘 = Inception-v3(𝑐ˆ𝑘 ),

(18)

where sticker representation 𝑂 𝑘 ∈ R𝑑 is a one-dimensional vector, we drop the output 𝑂 and use the output 𝑂 𝑓 𝑙𝑎𝑡 as
the 𝑂 𝑘 .
Intuitively, it is much easier for the user to recall their recently used stickers than the stickers they used a long time
ago. Thus, we propose a recurrent neural network (RNN) based position-aware user history modeling layer which
𝑘

incorporates the position feature into the history data representation, e.g.,history dialog context representation ℎ and
history selected sticker representation 𝑂 𝑘 . We first concatenate the position of history dialog context as an additional
𝑘

feature to the vector representation of dialog representation ℎ and sticker representation 𝑂 𝑘 . Then, we employ an
RNN to encode these representations in chronological order:
𝑘
ℎˆ𝑘 = RNN(𝑡𝑘 ⊕ ℎ , ℎˆ𝑘−1 ),

(19)

𝑂ˆ 𝑘 = RNN(𝑡𝑘 ⊕ 𝑂 𝑘 , 𝑂ˆ 𝑘−1 ).

(20)

Finally, we obtain the position-aware history data representations {ℎˆ1, . . . , ℎˆ𝑇ℎ } and {𝑂ˆ 1, . . . , 𝑂ˆ𝑇ℎ } and we will introduce
how to store them into user preference memory.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

16

Shen Gao, et al.

Fusion Network
Fusion RNN

Add & Norm

Feed
Forward

Add & Norm

Multi-Head
Attention

Interaction
&
Gated Fusion

Prediction
Layer

Fusion Transformer

Fig. 8. Framework of fusion network. The black circle in the right of the figure indicates the interaction combination and gated fusion.

5.5.2 Memory Addressing. After obtaining all the vector representations of history sticker and dialog context, we
employ a key-value memory network and store them into each key-value slot, as shown in Figure 7. In this memory
network, we use the dialog contexts as the keys and use the corresponding selected stickers as the values.
First, we construct the query from the current dialog context, which will be used to retrieve the user preference
representation from the memory network. We apply a max-pooling layer on the representations of each utterance in
the current dialog context:
𝑖
ℎ𝑚
= mean-pooling({ℎ𝑖1, . . . , ℎ𝑇𝑖 𝑥 }),
1
ℎ = max{ℎ𝑚
, . . . , ℎ𝑇𝑚𝑢 },

(21)
(22)

𝑖 is the representation of 𝑖-th utterance in the current dialog context, ℎ ∈ R𝑑 is used as the query and it
where ℎ𝑚

represents the overall information of the current dialog context. Next, we use ℎ to calculate the read weights over each
memory slot:
𝛿𝑘 = softmax(ℎ𝑊𝛿 ℎˆ𝑘 ),

(23)

where 𝛿𝑘 ∈ [0, 1] is the read weight for the 𝑘-th memory slot and 𝑊𝛿 is a trainable parameter.
5.5.3 Memory Reading. After obtaining the read weights {𝛿 1, . . . , 𝛿𝑇ℎ } for all the memory slots, we can write the
semantic output for preference memory by:
𝑟=

𝑇
ℎ
∑︁

𝛿𝑘 𝑂ˆ 𝑘 ,

(24)

𝑘

where 𝑟 in essence represents a semantic preference representation and will be used when predicting the sticker in
current dialog context.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog
5.6

17

Fusion Network

Up till now, we have obtained the user preference representation and interaction result between each utterance and the
candidate sticker. Here we again include the utterance index 𝑖 which has been omitted in previous subsections, and 𝑄 2
now becomes 𝑄 𝑖2 . Since the utterances in a multi-turn dialog context are in chronological order, we employ a Fusion
RNN and a Fusion Transformer to model the short-term and long-term interaction between utterance {𝑄 21, . . . , 𝑄𝑇2𝑢 }.
Fusion RNN (shown in the top part of Figure 8) is based on the recurrent network which can capture short-term
dependency over each utterance interaction result. Fusion Transformer (shown in the bottom part of Figure 8) is based
on the self-attention mechanism which is designed for capturing the important elements and the long-term dependency
among all the interaction results.
5.6.1 Fusion RNN. Fusion RNN first reads the interaction results for each utterance {𝑄 21, . . . , 𝑄𝑇2𝑢 } and then transforms
into a sequence of hidden states. In this paper, we employ the gated recurrent unit (GRU) [12] as the cell of fusion RNN,
which is popular in sequential modeling [20, 65, 79]:


𝑔𝑖 = RNN 𝑄 𝑖2, 𝑔𝑖−1 ,

(25)

where 𝑔𝑖 is the hidden state of the fusion RNN and 𝑔0 is the initial state of RNN which is initialized randomly. Finally,
we obtain the sequence of hidden states {𝑔1, . . . , 𝑔𝑇𝑢 }. One can replace GRU with similar algorithms such as Long-Short
Term Memory network (LSTM) [34]. We leave the study as future work.
5.6.2 Fusion Transformer. To model the long-term dependency and capture the salience utterance from the context,
we employ the self-attention mechanism introduced in Equation 5-8. Concretely, given {𝑄 21, . . . , 𝑄𝑇2𝑢 }, we first employ
three linear projection layers with different parameters to project the input sequence into three different spaces:
Q𝑖 = FC(𝑄 𝑖2 ),

(26)

K 𝑖 = FC(𝑄 𝑖2 ),

(27)

V

𝑖

= FC(𝑄 𝑖2 ).

(28)

Then we feed these three matrices into the self-attention algorithm illustrated in Equation 5-8. Finally, we obtain the
long-term interaction result {𝑔ˆ1, . . . , 𝑔ˆ𝑇𝑢 }.
5.6.3 Long Short Interaction Combination. To combine the interaction representation generated by fusion RNN and
fusion Transformer, we employ the SUMULTI function proposed by [71] to combine these representations, which has
been proven effective in various tasks:
"
𝑔𝑖 = ReLU(W

𝑠

(𝑔ˆ𝑖 − 𝑔𝑖 ) ⊗ (𝑔ˆ𝑖 − 𝑔𝑖 )
𝑔ˆ𝑖 ⊗ 𝑔𝑖

#
+ b𝑠 ),

(29)

where ⊗ is the element-wise product. The new interaction sequence {𝑔1, . . . , 𝑔𝑇𝑢 } is then boiled down to a matching
vector 𝑔˜𝑇𝑢 by another GRU-based RNN:
𝑔˜𝑖 = RNN(𝑔˜𝑖−1, 𝑔𝑖 ).

(30)

We use the final hidden state 𝑔˜𝑇𝑢 as the representation of the overall interaction result between the whole utterance
context and the candidate sticker.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

18

Shen Gao, et al.

5.6.4 Gated Fusion. In the final prediction, our model combines the current dialog context interaction result and user
preference representation to predict the final result. However, in each case, the information required for current dialog
context interaction and user preference representation is not necessarily the same. If the current dialog context is very
similar to the history dialog context, the historical information should play a greater role in prediction. To incorporate
the user preference information into final sticker prediction, we employ a gated fusion which dynamically fuses the
current context interaction result and user preference representation together by using a gate 𝑓𝑔 . To dynamically fuse
these two information sources, we calculate a gate 𝑓𝑔 ∈ [0, 1] which decide which part should the model concentrates
on when making the final sticker selection decision:
𝑓𝑔 = 𝜎 (FC([𝑟 ⊕ 𝑔˜𝑇𝑢 ])),

(31)

where 𝜎 is the sigmoid function and ⊕ denotes the vector concatenation operation. Next, we apply a weighted sum
operation using the gate 𝑓𝑔 on current context interaction result 𝑔˜𝑇𝑢 and user preference representation 𝑟 , as shown in
Equation 32. Finally, we apply a fully-connected layer to produce the matching score 𝑦ˆ of the candidate sticker:
𝑦ˆ = 𝜎 (FC(𝑓𝑔 ∗ 𝑔˜𝑇𝑢 + (1 − 𝑓𝑔 ) ∗ 𝑟 )),

(32)

where 𝑦ˆ ∈ (0, 1) is the matching score of the candidate sticker.
5.7

Learning

Recall that we have a candidate sticker set 𝐶 = {𝑐 1, ...𝑐𝑇𝑐 } which contains multiple negative samples and one ground
truth sticker. We use hinge loss as our objective function:
L=

𝑁
∑︁



max 0, 𝑦ˆnegative − 𝑦ˆpositive + margin ,

(33)

where 𝑦ˆnegative and 𝑦ˆpositive corresponds to the predicted labels of the negative sample and ground truth sticker,
respectively. The margin is the margin rescaling in hinge loss. The gradient descent method is employed to update all
the parameters in our model to minimize this loss function.
6

EXPERIMENTAL SETUP

6.1

Research Questions

We list nine research questions that guide the experiments:
• RQ1 (See § 7.1): What is the overall performance of PESRS compared with all baselines?
• RQ2 (See § 7.2): What is the effect of each module in PESRS?
• RQ3 (See § 7.3): How does the performance change when the number of utterances changes?
• RQ4 (See § 7.4): Can co-attention mechanism successfully capture the salient part on the sticker image and the
important words in dialog context?
• RQ5 (See § 7.5): What is the influence of the similarity between candidate stickers?
• RQ6 (See § 7.6): What is the influence of the parameter settings?
• RQ7 (See § 7.7): What is the influence of the user history length?
• RQ8 (See § 7.8): What is the performance of using the user’s most selected sticker as the response?
• RQ9 (See § 7.9): Can sticker encoder capture the semantic meaning of sticker?
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

19

Table 3. Ablation models for comparison.

Acronym

Gloss

PESRS w/o Classify
PESRS w/o DIN
PESRS w/o FR
PESRS FR2T

PESRS w/o emoji classification task
PESRS w/o Deep Interaction Network
PESRS w/o Fusion RNN
Change the Fusion RNN in PESRS to Transformer with positional
encoding
PESRS w/o User Preference Memory
PESRS w/o Time-Aware RNN

PESRS w/o UPM
PESRS w/o TAR

6.2

Comparison Methods

We first conduct an ablation study to prove the effectiveness of each component in PESRS as shown in Table 3.
Specifically, we remove each key part of our PESRS to create ablation models and then evaluate the performance of
these models.
Next, to evaluate the performance of our model, we compare it with the following baselines. Note that, we adapt VQA
and multi-turn response selection models to the sticker response selection task by changing their input text encoder to
image encoder. Since we incorporate the user history data into our model, we also compare with the user modeling
method which has been widely used in the recommendation tasks.
(1) SMN: [79] proposes a sequential matching network to address response selection for the multi-turn conversation
problem. SMN first matches a response with each utterance in the context. Then vectors are accumulated in chronological
order through an RNN. The final matching score is calculated with RNN.
(2) DAM: [90] extends the transformer model [68] to the multi-turn response selection task, where representations of
text segments are constructed using stacked self-attention. Then, truly matched segment pairs are extracted across
context and response.
(3) MRFN: [65] proposes a multi-representation fusion network which consists of multiple dialog utterance representation methods and generates multiple fine-grained utterance representations. Next, they argue that these representations
can be fused into final response candidate matching at an early stage, at the intermediate stage or the last stage. They
evaluate all stages and find fusion at the last stage yields the best performance. This is the state-of-the-art model on the
multi-turn response selection task.
(4) Synergistic: [30] devises a novel synergistic network on VQA task. First, candidate answers are coarsely scored
according to their relevance to the image-question pair. Afterward, answers with high probabilities of being correct are
re-ranked by synergizing with image and question. This model achieves the state-of-the-art performance on the Visual
Dialog v1.0 dataset [13].
(5) PSAC: [46] proposes the positional self-attention with co-attention architecture on VQA task, which does not require
RNNs for video question answering. We replace the output probability on the vocabulary size with the probability on
candidate sticker set.
(6) SRS: We propose the first sticker selection method consists of the sticker and dialog context encoding module, deep
matching network and information fusion layer in our previous work [22]. This method achieves the state-of-the-art
performance on the multi-turn dialog-based sticker selection dataset.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

20

Shen Gao, et al.

(7) LSTUR: [2] proposes a long- and short-term user modeling method to represent the long- and short-term user
preference and then apply this method to the news recommendation task. Experiments on a real-world dataset
demonstrate their approach can effectively improve the performance of neural news recommendation method. To adapt
this method on our sticker selection task, we replace their news encoding network with the sticker image encoding
network, Inception-v3, as the same as we used in our model. Since there are countless users in our task, we can not
obtain a static user embedding as they used in their model. For fair, comparison, we replace the user embedding in their
model to current dialog context.
For the first three multi-turn response selection baselines, we replace the candidate utterance embedding RNN or
Transformer network with the image encoding CNN network Inception-v3, which is the same as used in our proposed
model. This Inception-v3 network is initialized using a pre-trained model3 for all baselines and PESRS.
6.3

Evaluation Metrics

Following [65, 90], we employ recall at position 𝑘 in 𝑛 candidates 𝑅𝑛 @𝑘 as an evaluation metric, which measures if the
positive response is ranked in the top 𝑘 positions of 𝑛 candidates. Following [90], we also employ mean average precision
(MAP) [4] as an evaluation metric. The statistical significance of differences observed between the performance of two
runs is tested using a two-tailed paired t-test and is denoted using ▲ (or ▼ ) for strong significance at 𝛼 = 0.01.
6.4

Implementation Details

We implement our experiments using TensorFlow [1] on an NVIDIA GTX 2080Ti GPU. If the number of words in an
utterance is less than 30, we pad zeros, otherwise, the first 30 words are kept. The word embedding dimension is set to
100 and the number of hidden units is 100. The batch size is set to 32. 9 negative samples are randomly sampled from
the sticker set containing the ground truth sticker, and we finally obtain 10 candidate stickers for the model to select.
We initialize all the parameters randomly using a Gaussian distribution in [-0.02, 0.02]. We use Adam optimizer [40] as
our optimizing algorithm, and the learning rate is 1 × 10−4 .
7

EXPERIMENTAL RESULT

7.1

Overall Performance

For research question RQ1, we examine the performance of our model and baselines in terms of each evaluation metric,
as shown in Table 4. First, the performance of the multi-turn response selection models is generally consistent with
their performances on text response selection datasets. SMN [79], an earlier work on multi-turn response selection task
with a simple structure, obtains the worst performance on both sticker response and text response selection. DAM [90]
improves the SMN model and gets better performance. MRFN [65] is the state-of-the-art text response selection model
and achieves the best performance among baselines in our task as well. Second, VQA models perform generally worse
than multi-turn response selection models, since the interaction between multi-turn utterances and sticker is important,
which is not taken into account by VQA models. Third, our previously proposed SRS achieves better performance with
3.36%, 5.92% and 3.72% improvements in MAP, 𝑅10 @1 and 𝑅10 @2 respectively, over the state-of-the-art multi-turn
selection model, i.e.,MRFN, and with 6.80%, 10.69% and 8.74% significant increases (with p-value < 0.05) over the
state-of-the-art visual dialog model, PSAC. Finally, comparing with our previously proposed sticker selection method
SRS, our newly proposed model PESRS which incorporates the user preference information achieves the state-of-the-art
3 https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/slim

Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

21

Table 4. RQ1: Automatic evaluation comparison. Significant differences are with respect to MRFN.

MAP

𝑅10 @1

𝑅10 @2

𝑅10 @5

Visual Q&A methods
Synergistic 0.593
PSAC
0.662

0.438
0.533

0.569
0.641

0.798
0.836

Multi-turn response selection methods
SMN
0.524
0.357
0.488
DAM
0.620
0.474
0.601
MRFN
0.684
0.557
0.672
LSTUR
0.689
0.558
0.68

0.737
0.813
0.853
0.874

SRS
PESRS

0.872
0.897

0.709
0.743

0.590
0.632▲

0.703
0.740▲

     

     

     
     
     

R10@1

 0 $ 3

     
     

     
     

     

     

     

     
 

 

 

  

  

     

  

 

 

 8 W W H U D Q F H  1 X P E H U

 

  

  

  

  

  

 8 W W H U D Q F H  1 X P E H U

(b) 𝑅10 @1 score

(a) 𝑀𝐴𝑃 score
     
     
     
     

     

R10@5

R10@2

     

     
     

     
     
     

     
     
     

 

 

 

  

 8 W W H U D Q F H  1 X P E H U

(c) 𝑅10 @2 score

  

  

 

 

 

  

 8 W W H U D Q F H  1 X P E H U

(d) 𝑅10 @5 score

Fig. 9. RQ3: Performance of PRSRS on all metrics when reading different number of utterances.

performance with 4.8%, 7.1% and 5.3% improvements in 𝑀𝐴𝑃, 𝑅10 @1 and 𝑅10 @2 respectively, over our previous method
Manuscript submitted to ACM

22

Shen Gao, et al.
Table 5. RQ2: Evaluation of different ablation models.

PESRS w/o Classify
PESRS w/o DIN
PESRS w/o FR
PESRS FR2T
PESRS w/o UPM
PESRS w/o TAR
PESRS

MAP

𝑅10 @1

𝑅10 @2

𝑅10 @5

0.714
0.728
0.727
0.725
0.709
0.710
0.743

0.598
0.612
0.609
0.610
0.590
0.589
0.632▲

0.707
0.725
0.725
0.719
0.703
0.706
0.740▲

0.866
0.888
0.886
0.881
0.872
0.873
0.897

SRS which is just based on the multi-modal matching between utterance and sticker image. That demonstrates the
superiority of incorporating the user preference information into sticker selection model.
7.2

Ablation Study

For research question RQ2, we conduct ablation tests on the use of the sticker classification loss (introduced in § 5.2),
the deep interaction network (introduced in § 5.4), the fusion RNN (introduced in § 5.6.1), the user preference memory
without position aware RNN (introduced in § 5.5) and the full user preference memory (introduced in § 5.5.1) respectively.
The evaluation results are shown in Table 5. The performances of all ablation models are worse than that of PESRS under
all metrics, which demonstrates the necessity of each component in PESRS. We also find that the sticker classification
makes contribution to the overall performance. And this additional task can also speed up the training process, and
help our model to converge quickly. We use 21 hours to train the PESRS until convergence, and we use 35 hours
for training PESRS w/o Classify. The fusion RNN brings a significant contribution (with p-value < 0.05), improving
the 𝑀𝐴𝑃 and 𝑅10 @1 scores by 2.2% and 3.8%, respectively. We also change the fusion RNN to a Transformer with
positional encoding, which leads to a decrease of the performance that verifies the effectiveness of fusion RNN. The
deep interaction network also plays an important part. Without this module, the interaction between the sticker and
utterance are hindered, leading to a 3.3% drop in 𝑅10 @1. Particularly, since the user preference memory capture the
preference of user’s sticker selection, we can see that when the user preference memory is removed from the model, the
model suffers from dramatic performance drop in terms of all metrics. And the position-aware user history encoding
RNN also makes contribution to the PESRS model, improving the 𝑀𝐴𝑃 and 𝑅10 @1 scores by 4.6% and 7.3%, respectively.
7.3

Analysis of Number of Utterances

For research question RQ3, in addition to comparing with various baselines, we also evaluate our model when reading
different number of utterances to study how the performance relates to number of context turns.
Figure 9 shows how the performance of the PESRS changes with respect to different numbers of utterances turns. In
this experiment, we change the numbers of utterances turns in both current dialog context and history dialog contexts.
We observe a similar trend for PESRS on the first three evaluation metrics 𝑀𝐴𝑃, 𝑅10 @1 and 𝑅10 @2: they first increase
until the utterance number reaches 15, and then fluctuate as the utterance number continues to increase. There are two
possible reasons for this phenomena. The first reason might be that, when the information in the utterances is limited,
the model can capture the features well, and thus when the amount of information increases, the performance gets
better. However, the capacity of the model is limited, and when the amount of information reaches its upper bound, it
gets confused by this overwhelming information. The second reason might be of the usefulness of the utterance context.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

23

Utterances that occur too early before the sticker response may be irrelevant to the sticker and bring unnecessary noise.
As for the last metric, the above observations do not preserve. The 𝑅10 @5 scores fluctuate when the utterance number
is below 15, and drop when the utterance number increases. The reason might be that 𝑅10 @5 is not a strict metric, and
it is easy to collect this right sticker in the set of half of the whole candidates. Thus, the growth of the information given
to PESRS does not help it perform better but the noise it brings harms the performance. On the other hand, though the
number of utterances changes from 3 to 18, the overall performance of PESRS generally remains at a high level, which
proves the robustness of our model.

话说。。为什么有些⼈可以说出让我不知
道怎么接的话。
Case 1

Why do some people always say sth I
don't know how to pick up?

我⼀个朋友的朋友，最近⽼问我在⼲嘛，
吃饭了吗。。
I have a friend's friend, who always ask
me what am I doing, have I eaten.

然后我说我没吃
Then I said that I haven't eaten.
对⽅ 就会。。。
Then he will reply with ...
我实在不知道下⼀句怎么接
I really don't know what to say next.
求吧
Ask him to beg you to eat.
不跪下来求都不吃

Unless he begs you to eat, you won't
eat.

Case 2

你认为是机器⼈就是机器⼈
If you think it is a chatbot, it is.
你认为是真⼈就是真⼈
If you think it is a real person, it is.
就是机器⼈没跑了
It is a chatbot, deﬁnitely.
哈哈
Haha
不能 太较真
Don't be too serious.
太较真就⽆聊了

It becomes boring if you are taking it too
seriously.
1+
7
If you don't believe it is a chatbot, you
can ask him the question "what is the
answer of 1+ﬁve times by 7 divided by
three"

不信你告诉我 五乘以 除以三等于多少

Case 3

要怎么样才能连上啊
我连不上
I can't connect to it.
不会⽤⼲什么买nat啊
NAT
How to connect to NAT?

If you don't know how to use NAT,
why did you buy it?
, IDC
BTW, does IDC make money?
66666
good question
150w
150%
You give me 1.5 million, and I will
give you a 150% return.

话说 开 赚钱吗？
投我

给你

的回报率

Fig. 10. RQ4: Examples of sticker selection results produced by SRS. We show the selected sticker and three random selected candidate
stickers with the attention heat map. The lighter the area on image is, the higher attention weight it gets. The first two cases are
collected from a chitchat group, and the third one is collected from a VPN custom service group.

7.4

Analysis of Attention Distribution in Interaction Process

Next, we turn to address RQ4. We also show three cases with the dialog context in Figure 10. There are four stickers
under each dialog context, one is the selected sticker by our model and other three stickers are random selected
candidate stickers. As a main component, the deep interaction network comprises a bi-directional attention mechanism
between the utterance and the sticker, where each word in the utterance and each unit in the sticker representation
have a similarity score in the co-attention matrix. To visualize the sticker selection process and to demonstrate the
interpretability of deep interaction network, we visualize the sticker-wise attention 𝜏 𝑠 (Equation 12) on the original
sticker image and show some examples in Figure 10. The lighter the area is, the higher attention it gets.
Facial expressions are an important part in sticker images. Hence, we select several stickers with vivid facial expression
in Figure 10. Take forth sticker in Case 1 for example where the character has a wink eye and a smiling mouth. The
highlights are accurately placed on the character’s eye, indicating that the representation of this sticker is highly
Manuscript submitted to ACM

24

Shen Gao, et al.

h

ul

og

M

-

t
si

So

-

y
la

-

s
ea

on

yo

te

y

e

u

ac

I

p

en
th

ee
sl

hy

w

ill

st

e
ak

n

ca

m

e

us

d

ho

-

f

to

a

lo

na
hi le
C obi
M

et
m

ey

-

on
m

M
SI rd
ca

Fig. 11. RQ4: Examples of the attention weights of the dialog utterance. We translate Chinese to English word by word. The darker
the area is, the higher weight the word gets.

dependent on this part. Another example is the last sticker of Case 3, there is two question marks on the top right
corner of the sticker image which indicates that the girl is very suspicious of this. In addition to facial expression, the
characters gestures can also represent emotions. Take the third sticker in Case 2 for example, the character in this
sticker gives a thumbs up representing support and we can find that the attention lies on his hand, indicating that the
model learns the key point of his body language.
Furthermore, we randomly select three utterances from the test dataset, and we also visualize the attention distribution
over the words in an utterance, as shown in Figure 11. We use the weight 𝜏 𝑢𝑗 for the 𝑗-th word (calculated in Equation 11)
as the attention weight. We can find that the attention module always gives a higher attention weight on the salience
word, such as the “easy method”, “make a lot of money” and “use Chine Mobile”.
7.5

Influence of Similarity between Candidates

In this section, we turn to RQ5 to investigate the influence of the similarities between candidates. The candidate stickers
are sampled from the same set, and stickers in a set usually have a similar style. Thus, it is natural to ask: Can our model
identify the correct sticker from a set of similar candidates? What is the influence of the similarity between candidate
stickers? Hence, we use the Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) metric [3, 72] to calculate the average similarity among
all candidates in a test sample and then aggregate all test samples into five groups according to their average similarities.
We calculate the 𝑅10 @1 of each group of samples, as shown in Figure 12. The x-axis is the average similarity between
candidate stickers and the y-axis is the 𝑅10 @1 score.
Not surprisingly, our model gains the best performance when the average similarity of the candidate group is low and
its performance drops as similarity increases. However, we can also see that, though similarity varies from minimum to
maximum, the overall performance can overall stay at high level. 𝑅10 @1 scores of all five groups are above 0.42, and
the highest score reaches 0.59. That is, our model is highly robust and can keep giving reasonable sticker responses.
7.6

Robustness of Parameter Setting

In this section, we turn to address RQ6 to investigate the robustness of parameter setting. We train PESRS model in
different parameter setting as shown in Figure 13. The hidden size of the RNN, CNN and the dense layer in our model is
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

25

Fig. 12. RQ5: Performance of SRS on groups of different candidate similarity.

    
 0 $ 3

    

R10@1
R10@2
R10@5

    
    
    
    
    
    

  

   

   

   

 + L G G H Q  6 L ] H
Fig. 13. RQ6: Performance of PESRS with different parameter settings.

tuned from 50 to 200, and we use the MAP and 𝑅𝑛 @𝑘 to evaluate each model. As the hidden size grows larger from 50
to 100, the performance rises too. The increment of hidden size improves the MAP and 𝑅10 @1 scores by 1.1% and 1.9%.
When the hidden size continuously goes larger from 100 to 200, the performance is declined slightly. The increment of
hidden size leads to a 3.9% and 5.3% drop in terms of MAP and 𝑅10 @1 respectively. Nonetheless, we can find that each
metric maintained at a stable interval, which demonstrates that our PESRS is robust in terms of the parameter size.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

26

Shen Gao, et al.

     
     
     
     

R10@1

 0 $ 3

     

     

     
     

     
     
     

     

     
     
 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 + L V W R U \  / H Q J W K

 

 

  

 

  

 + L V W R U \  / H Q J W K

(b) 𝑅10 @1 score

(a) 𝑀𝐴𝑃 score
     
     

     

     

R10@5

R10@2

     

     

     

     

     
     
     
     
 

 

 

 

  

 + L V W R U \  / H Q J W K

(c) 𝑅10 @2 score

 

 

 

 + L V W R U \  / H Q J W K

(d) 𝑅10 @5 score

Fig. 14. RQ7: Performance of PESRS with different user history length.

7.7

Influence of User History Length

Next, we address RQ7 which focuses on the influence of using different lengths of user history. We feed different
lengths of user sticker selection history to the model, and we show the model performance of different lengths in
Figure 14. From this figure, we can find that the model performs worse when we just feed only 2 user sticker selection
history. The sticker selection prediction performance of the model rises sharply as the history length increases. This
indicates that it requires large amount of user behavior patterns for modeling the preference of the user. And the growth
of user behavior sequence helps PESRS to better capture sticker selection patterns according to the dialog context.
7.8

Analysis of User Preference Memory

Next, we turn to RQ8 to investigate the effectiveness of user preference modeling module. We propose a simple heuristic
method and two variations of our user preference memory module.
To verify the necessity of using user preference modeling network, we use a simple heuristic method (MostSelected)
which just use the most selected sticker by user as the sticker prediction of current dialog context. This method does
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

27

Table 6. RQ8: Performance of two variations user preference memory module.

SRS
MostSelected
AverageMem
WeightedMem
PESRS

MAP

𝑅10 @1

𝑅10 @2

𝑅10 @5

0.709
0.545
0.701
0.694
0.743

0.590
0.419
0.573
0.565
0.632▲

0.703
0.490
0.701
0.689
0.740▲

0.872
0.679
0.870
0.866
0.897

not consider the semantic matching degree of previous dialog context and current dialog context. Consequently, the
predicted sticker of this heuristic method is not flexible.
The first variation (AverageMem) is to simply apply an average-pooling layer on all the previous selected sticker
representations by the corresponding user:
𝑟=

𝑇ℎ
∑︁

𝑂ˆ 𝑘 .

(34)

𝑘

Then we use this as the user preference representation and feed 𝑟 to the final gated fusion layer, as shown in Equation 31.
The second variation (WeightedMem) is to remove the key addressing process, and directly apply an attention-thenweighted method on all the user previous selected stickers. This variation can be split into two steps: (1) calculate
attention weights and (2) weighted sum stickers. We use the query vector ℎ (shown in Equation 22) to calculate attention
weights of each user previously selected stickers {𝑂ˆ 1, . . . , 𝑂ˆ𝑇 }, and the query vector ℎ is the same as used in our
ℎ

proposed user preference memory module:
𝛿𝑘 = softmax(ℎ𝑊𝛿 𝑂ˆ 𝑘 ),

(35)

where 𝛿𝑘 ∈ [0, 1] is the attention weight for the 𝑘-th selected sticker. Then we apply the weighted-sum on all the user
previously selected sticker representations:
𝑟=

𝑇ℎ
∑︁

𝛿𝑘 𝑂ˆ 𝑘 .

(36)

𝑘

Finally, we feed this preference representation 𝑟 into final gated fusion layer (Equation 31). Note that, the above two
variations exclude the histories of dialogue contexts, and we employ these experiments to verify the effectiveness of
incorporating histories of dialogue contexts.
We conduct the experiments on these variations and compare with our proposed PESRS and SRS, as shown in
Table 6. From this table, we can find that MostSelected performs the worst among all the methods. That demonstrates the
necessity of exploring a learning-based method to leverage the user history data to recommend the proper sticker. By
comparing AverageMem with the SRS which does not incorporate the user’s history, we find that although AverageMem
and WeightedMem leverages the user’s history information, it can not take advantages from these data to boost the
performance of sticker selection. The reason is that these methods can not model the relationship between current
dialog context and previous history data, thus it can not determine which history data may be helpful for the current
context.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

28

Shen Gao, et al.

17500

15000

12500

10000

7500

5000

2500

0

Fig. 15. RQ9: Number of the used emoji labels over stickers in training dataset (top 50 emojis of 893 unique emojis in total).

7.9

Sticker Classification and Emotion Diversity

Finally, we turn to RQ9. In this dataset, the sticker authors give each sticker an emoji label that indicates the approximate
emotion of the sticker. However, this label is not a mandatory field when creating a sticker set in this online chatting
platform. Some authors use random emoji or one emoji label for all the stickers in the sticker set. Thus, we cannot
incorporate the emoji label and tackle the sticker selection task as an emoji classification task. We randomly sample
20 sticker sets and employ human annotators to check whether the emoji label in sticker set is correct, and we find
that there are 2 sticker set of them have wrong emoji labels for the stickers. Since we introduce the auxiliary sticker
classification (introduced in § 5.2) to help the model for accelerating convergence of the model training, we also report
the sticker classification performance in this paper. Note that, since the emoji label of the sticker may not be correct,
therefore, the classification performance is not accurate, the results are for reference only. The results of the sticker
classification are 65.74%, 50.75%, 47.02%, 61.20% for accuracy, F1, recall and precision, respectively. These results indicate
the sticker encoder can capture the semantic meanings of the sticker image.
To illustrate the diversity of the emotion expressed by the stickers, we use the emoji label as the indicator of the
emotion and plot the distribution of the emoji label of stickers. In Figure 15, we only show the top 50 emoji labels used
in all the sticker set in our training dataset and the total number of unique emoji label is 893. From Figure 15, we can
find that there are many stickers with the emoji label
or

and

. The reason is that some of the sticker authors assign

as the emoji label to all the stickers in their sticker set, as we mentioned before (some authors use random

emoji or one emoji label for all the stickers in the sticker set).
8

CONCLUSION

In our previous work, we propose the task of multi-turn sticker response selection, which recommends an appropriate
sticker based on multi-turn dialog context history without relying on external knowledge. However, this method only
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

29

focuses on measuring the matching degree between the dialog context and sticker image, which ignores the user
preference of using stickers. Hence, in this paper, we propose the Preference Enhanced Sticker Response Selector (PESRS)
to recommend an appropriate sticker to user based on multi-turn dialog context and sticker using history of user.
Specifically, PESRS first learns the representation of each utterance using a self-attention mechanism, and learns sticker
representation by CNN. Second, a deep interaction network is employed to fully model the dependency between the
sticker and utterances. The deep interaction network consists of a co-attention matrix that calculates the attention
between each word in an utterance and each unit in a sticker representation. Third, a bi-directional attention is used to
obtain utterance-aware sticker representation and sticker-aware utterance representations. Next, we retrieve the recent
user sticker selections, and then propose a user preference modeling module which consists a position-aware history
encoding network and a key-value based memory network to generate the user preference representation dynamically
according to current dialog context. Then, a fusion network models the short-term and long-term relationship between
interaction results, and a gated fusion layer is applied to fuse the current dialog interaction results and user preference
representation dynamically. Finally, a fully-connected layer is applied to obtain the final sticker prediction using the
output of gated fusion layer. Our model outperforms state-of-the-art methods including our previous method SRS in all
metrics and the experimental results also demonstrate the effectiveness of each module in our model. In the near future,
we aim to propose a personalized sticker response selection system.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments. We would also like to thank
Anna Hennig in Inception Institute of Artificial Intelligence for her help on this paper. This work was supported
by the National Science Foundation of China (NSFC No. 61876196) and the National Key R&D Program of China
(2020AAA0105200). Rui Yan is supported as a Young Fellow of Beijing Institute of Artificial Intelligence (BAAI).

Manuscript submitted to ACM

30

Shen Gao, et al.

REFERENCES
[1] Martín Abadi, Paul Barham, Jianmin Chen, Zhifeng Chen, Andy Davis, Jeffrey Dean, Matthieu Devin, Sanjay Ghemawat, Geoffrey Irving, Michael
Isard, et al. 2016. Tensorflow: a system for large-scale machine learning.. In OSDI, Vol. 16. 265–283.
[2] Mingxiao An, Fangzhao Wu, Chuhan Wu, Kun Zhang, Zheng Liu, and Xing Xie. 2019. Neural News Recommendation with Long- and Short-term
User Representations. In ACL.
[3] Alireza Avanaki. 2008. Exact histogram specification optimized for structural similarity. arXiv preprint arXiv:0901.0065 (2008).
[4] Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Berthier de Araújo Neto Ribeiro, et al. 2011. Modern information retrieval. New York: ACM Press; Harlow, England: AddisonWesley,.
[5] Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2015. Neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and translate. In ICLR.
[6] Francesco Barbieri, Miguel Ballesteros, Francesco Ronzano, and Horacio Saggion. 2018. Multimodal Emoji Prediction. In NAACL. Association for
Computational Linguistics, New Orleans, Louisiana, 679–686.
[7] Francesco Barbieri, Miguel Ballesteros, and Horacio Saggion. 2017. Are Emojis Predictable?. In Proceedings of the 15th Conference of the European
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Volume 2, Short Papers. Association for Computational Linguistics, Valencia, Spain, 105–111.
[8] Zhangming Chan, Juntao Li, Xiaopeng Yang, Xiuying Chen, Wenpeng Hu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. Modeling Personalization in Continuous
Space for Response Generation via Augmented Wasserstein Autoencoders. In EMNLP.
[9] Xiuying Chen, Zhangming Chan, Shen Gao, Meng-Hsuan Yu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. Learning towards Abstractive Timeline Summarization. In IJCAI.
[10] Xu Chen, Hongteng Xu, Yongfeng Zhang, Jiaxi Tang, Yixin Cao, Zheng Qin, and Hongyuan Zha. 2018. Sequential Recommendation with User
Memory Networks. In WSDM.
[11] Eric Chu, Prashanth Vijayaraghavan, and Deb Roy. 2018. Learning Personas from Dialogue with Attentive Memory Networks. In EMNLP.
[12] Junyoung Chung, Çaglar Gülçehre, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014. Empirical Evaluation of Gated Recurrent Neural Networks on
Sequence Modeling. In NIPS Workshop.
[13] A. Das, S. Kottur, K. Gupta, A. Singh, D. Yadav, J. M. F. Moura, D. Parikh, and D. Batra. 2017. Visual Dialog. In CVPR. 1080–1089.
[14] Gabriele de Seta. 2018. Biaoqing: The circulation of emoticons, emoji, stickers, and custom images on Chinese digital media platforms. First Monday
23 (2018).
[15] Travis Ebesu, Bin Shen, and Yi Fang. 2018. Collaborative Memory Network for Recommendation Systems. In SIGIR.
[16] Angela Fan, Mike Lewis, and Yann Dauphin. 2018. Hierarchical Neural Story Generation. In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Melbourne, Australia, 889–898.
[17] Jiazhan Feng, Chongyang Tao, Wei Wu, Yansong Feng, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. Learning a Matching Model with Co-teaching for
Multi-turn Response Selection in Retrieval-based Dialogue Systems. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics. Association for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 3805–3815.
[18] Jiyang Gao, Runzhou Ge, Kan Chen, and Ram Nevatia. 2018. Motion-Appearance Co-Memory Networks for Video Question Answering. In CVPR.
[19] Peng Gao, Haoxuan You, Zhanpeng Zhang, Xiaogang Wang, and Hongsheng Li. 2019. Multi-Modality Latent Interaction Network for Visual
Question Answering. In ICCV.
[20] Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Piji Li, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. How to Write Summaries with Patterns? Learning towards
Abstractive Summarization through Prototype Editing. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP). Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong,
China, 3741–3751.
[21] Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Piji Li, Zhaochun Ren, Lidong Bing, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. Abstractive Text Summarization by Incorporating
Reader Comments. In AAAI. 6399–6406.
[22] Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Chang Liu, Li Liu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2020. Learning to Respond with Stickers: A Framework of Unifying
Multi-Modality in Multi-Turn Dialog. In The World Wide Web Conference (WWW ’20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA.
[23] Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Zhaochun Ren, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2020. From Standard Summarization to New Tasks and Beyond: Summarization
with Manifold Information. In IJCAI.
[24] Shen Gao, Zhaochun Ren, Yihong Zhao, Dongyan Zhao, Dawei Yin, and Rui Yan. 2019. Product-Aware Answer Generation in E-Commerce
Question-Answering. In Proceedings of the Twelfth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining (Melbourne VIC, Australia) (WSDM
’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 429–437.
[25] Jing Ge and Susan C. Herring. 2018. Communicative functions of emoji sequences on Sina Weibo. First Monday 23 (2018).
[26] Ankit Goyal, Jian Wang, and Jia Deng. 2018. Think Visually: Question Answering through Virtual Imagery. In Proceedings of the 56th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Melbourne, Australia,
2598–2608.
[27] Yash Goyal, Tejas Khot, Douglas Summers-Stay, Dhruv Batra, and Devi Parikh. 2017. Making the V in VQA matter: Elevating the role of image
understanding in Visual Question Answering. In CVPR. 6904–6913.
[28] Gaël Guibon, Magalie Ochs, and Patrice Bellot. 2018. Emoji recommendation in private instant messages. Proceedings of the 33rd Annual ACM
Symposium on Applied Computing (2018).
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

31

[29] Dan Guo, Hui Wang, and Meng Wang. 2019. Dual Visual Attention Network for Visual Dialog. In IJCAI.
[30] D. Guo, C. Xu, and D. Tao. 2019. Image-Question-Answer Synergistic Network for Visual Dialog. In CVPR ’19. 10426–10435.
[31] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. 2015. Delving deep into rectifiers: Surpassing human-level performance on imagenet
classification. In ICCV. 1026–1034.
[32] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. 2016. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In CVPR. 770–778.
[33] Susan C. Herring and Ashley Dainas. 2017. "Nice Picture Comment!" Graphicons in Facebook Comment Threads. In HICSS.
[34] Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber. 1997. Long short-term memory. Neural computation 9, 8 (1997), 1735–1780.
[35] Jin Huang, Zhaochun Ren, Wayne Xin Zhao, Gaole He, Ji-Rong Wen, and Daxiang Dong. 2019. Taxonomy-Aware Multi-Hop Reasoning Networks
for Sequential Recommendation. In WSDM.
[36] Xiaowen Huang, Quan Fang, Shengsheng Qian, Jitao Sang, Yan Li, and Changsheng Xu. 2019. Explainable Interaction-driven User Modeling over
Knowledge Graph for Sequential Recommendation. In MM.
[37] Unnat Jain, Svetlana Lazebnik, and Alexander G Schwing. 2018. Two can play this game: visual dialog with discriminative question generation and
answering. In ICCV. 5754–5763.
[38] Baoyu Jing, Pengtao Xie, and Eric Xing. 2018. On the Automatic Generation of Medical Imaging Reports. In ACL ’18. Association for Computational
Linguistics, Melbourne, Australia, 2577–2586.
[39] Byeongchang Kim, Hyunwoo Kim, and Gunhee Kim. 2019. Abstractive Summarization of Reddit Posts with Multi-level Memory Networks. In
NAACL.
[40] Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2015. Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization. In ICLR, Vol. abs/1412.6980.
[41] Ankit Kumar, Ozan Irsoy, Peter Ondruska, Mohit Iyyer, James Bradbury, Ishaan Gulrajani, Victor Zhong, Romain Paulus, and Richard Socher. 2016.
Ask Me Anything: Dynamic Memory Networks for Natural Language Processing. ArXiv abs/1506.07285 (2016).
[42] Abhishek Laddha, Mohamed Hanoosh, and Debdoot Mukherjee. 2019. Understanding Chat Messages for Sticker Recommendation in Hike Messenger.
arXiv:1902.02704 (2019).
[43] Chenyi Lei, Shouling Ji, and Zhao Li. 2019. TiSSA: A Time Slice Self-Attention Approach for Modeling Sequential User Behaviors. In WWW.
[44] Jimmy Lei Ba, Jamie Ryan Kiros, and Geoffrey E Hinton. 2016. Layer normalization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.06450 (2016).
[45] Juntao Li, Lisong Qiu, Bo Tang, Dongmin Chen, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. Insufficient Data Can Also Rock! Learning to Converse Using
Smaller Data with Augmentation. In AAAI.
[46] Xiangpeng Li, Jingkuan Song, Lianli Gao, Xianglong Liu, Wenbing Huang, Xiangnan He, and Chuang Gan. 2019. Beyond RNNs: Positional
Self-Attention with Co-Attention for Video Question Answering. In AAAI.
[47] Yikang Li, Nan Duan, Bolei Zhou, Xiao Chu, Wanli Ouyang, Xiaogang Wang, and Ming Zhou. 2018. Visual Question Generation as Dual Task of
Visual Question Answering. In CVPR.
[48] Jiasen Lu, Anitha Kannan, Jianwei Yang, Devi Parikh, and Dhruv Batra. 2017. Best of both worlds: Transferring knowledge from discriminative
learning to a generative visual dialog model. In NIPS. 314–324.
[49] Chao Ma, Chunhua Shen, Anthony Dick, Qi Wu, Peng Wang, Anton van den Hengel, and Ian Reid. 2018. Visual Question Answering With
Memory-Augmented Networks. In CVPR.
[50] Mateusz Malinowski, Marcus Rohrbach, and Mario Fritz. 2015. Ask your neurons: A neural-based approach to answering questions about images. In
ICCV. 1–9.
[51] Sameen Maruf and Gholamreza Haffari. 2018. Document Context Neural Machine Translation with Memory Networks. In ACL.
[52] Alexander H. Miller, Adam Fisch, Jesse Dodge, Amir-Hossein Karimi, Antoine Bordes, and Jason Weston. 2016. Key-Value Memory Networks for
Directly Reading Documents. ArXiv abs/1606.03126 (2016).
[53] Vishvak Murahari, Prithvijit Chattopadhyay, Dhruv Batra, Devi Parikh, and Abhishek Das. 2019. Improving Generative Visual Dialog by Answering
Diverse Questions. In EMNLP.
[54] Vinod Nair and Geoffrey E. Hinton. 2010. Rectified Linear Units Improve Restricted Boltzmann Machines. In ICML.
[55] H. Noh, T. Kim, J. Mun, and B. Han. 2019. Transfer Learning via Unsupervised Task Discovery for Visual Question Answering. In 2019 IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). 8377–8386.
[56] Juan Pavez, Héctor Allende, and Héctor Allende-Cid. 2018. Working Memory Networks: Augmenting Memory Networks with a Relational Reasoning
Module. In ACL.
[57] Qi Pi, Weijie Bian, Guorui Zhou, Xiaoqiang Zhu, and Kun Gai. 2019. Practice on Long Sequential User Behavior Modeling for Click-Through Rate
Prediction. In KDD.
[58] Kan Ren, Jiarui Qin, Yuchen Fang, Weinan Zhang, Lei Zheng, Weijie Bian, Guorui Zhou, Jian Xu, Yong Yu, Xiaoqiang Zhu, and Kun Gai. 2019.
Lifelong Sequential Modeling with Personalized Memorization for User Response Prediction. In SIGIR.
[59] Pengjie Ren, Zhumin Chen, Jing Li, Zhaochun Ren, Jun Ma, and Maarten de Rijke. 2019. RepeatNet: A Repeat Aware Neural Recommendation
Machine for Session-Based Recommendation. In AAAI.
[60] F. Sha, H. Hu, and W. Chao. 2018. Cross-Dataset Adaptation for Visual Question Answering. In 2018 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition. 5716–5725.
[61] Zhou Su, Chen Zhu, Yinpeng Dong, Dongqi Cai, Yurong Chen, and Jianguo Li. 2018. Learning Visual Knowledge Memory Networks for Visual
Question Answering. In CVPR.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

32

Shen Gao, et al.

[62] Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Arthur Szlam, Jason Weston, and Rob Fergus. 2015. End-To-End Memory Networks. In NIPS.
[63] Christian Szegedy, Vincent Vanhoucke, Sergey Ioffe, Jon Shlens, and Zbigniew Wojna. 2016. Rethinking the inception architecture for computer
vision. In CVPR. 2818–2826.
[64] Chongyang Tao, Shen Gao, Mingyue Shang, Wei Wu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2018. Get The Point of My Utterance! Learning Towards Effective
Responses with Multi-Head Attention Mechanism. In IJCAI.
[65] Chongyang Tao, Wei Wu, Can Xu, Wenpeng Hu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. Multi-Representation Fusion Network for Multi-Turn Response
Selection in Retrieval-Based Chatbots. In WSDM. ACM, 267–275.
[66] Chongyang Tao, Wei Wu, Can Xu, Wenpeng Hu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019. One Time of Interaction May Not Be Enough: Go Deep with
an Interaction-over-Interaction Network for Response Selection in Dialogues. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics. Association for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 1–11.
[67] Zhiqiang Tao, Sheng Li, Zhaowen Wang, Chen Fang, Longqi Yang, Handong Zhao, and Yun Fu. 2019. Log2Intent: Towards Interpretable User
Modeling via Recurrent Semantics Memory Unit. In KDD.
[68] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is
all you need. In NIPS. 5998–6008.
[69] Peng Wang, Qi Wu, Chunhua Shen, Anthony Dick, and Anton van den Hengel. 2017. Explicit Knowledge-based Reasoning for Visual Question
Answering. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Sixth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI-17. 1290–1296.
[70] Qinyong Wang, Hongzhi Yin, Zhiting Hu, Defu Lian, Hao Wang, and Zi Huang. 2018. Neural Memory Streaming Recommender Networks with
Adversarial Training. In KDD.
[71] Shuohang Wang and Jing Jiang. 2017. A Compare-Aggregate Model for Matching Text Sequences. ICLR (2017).
[72] Zhou Wang, Alan C Bovik, Hamid R Sheikh, Eero P Simoncelli, et al. 2004. Image quality assessment: from error visibility to structural similarity.
IEEE transactions on image processing 13, 4 (2004), 600–612.
[73] Chenfei Wu, Jinlai Liu, Xiaojie Wang, and Xuan Dong. 2018. Chain of Reasoning for Visual Question Answering. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 31, S. Bengio, H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, K. Grauman, N. Cesa-Bianchi, and R. Garnett (Eds.). Curran Associates, Inc., 275–285.
[74] Chenfei Wu, Jinlai Liu, Xiaojie Wang, and Xuan Dong. 2018. Object-Difference Attention: A Simple Relational Attention for Visual Question
Answering. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM International Conference on Multimedia (Seoul, Republic of Korea) (MM ’18). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 519–527.
[75] Chuhan Wu, Fangzhao Wu, Mingxiao An, Tao Qi, Jianqiang Huang, Yongfeng Huang, and Xing Xie. 2019. Neural News Recommendation with
Heterogeneous User Behavior. In EMNLP.
[76] Chien-Sheng Wu, Richard Socher, and Caiming Xiong. 2019. Global-to-local Memory Pointer Networks for Task-Oriented Dialogue. In ICLR.
[77] Qi Wu, Peng Wang, Chunhua Shen, Anthony Dick, and Anton van den Hengel. 2016. Ask me anything: Free-form visual question answering based
on knowledge from external sources. In CVPR. 4622–4630.
[78] Qi Wu, Peng Wang, Chunhua Shen, Ian Reid, and Anton van den Hengel. 2018. Are you talking to me? reasoned visual dialog generation through
adversarial learning. In ICCV. 6106–6115.
[79] Yu Wu, Wei Wu, Chen Xing, Ming Zhou, and Zhoujun Li. 2017. Sequential Matching Network: A New Architecture for Multi-turn Response
Selection in Retrieval-Based Chatbots. In ACL. Association for Computational Linguistics, Vancouver, Canada, 496–505.
[80] Ruobing Xie, Zhiyuan Liu, Rui Yan, and Maosong Sun. 2016. Neural emoji recommendation in dialogue systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1612.04609
(2016).
[81] Caiming Xiong, Stephen Merity, and Richard Socher. 2016. Dynamic Memory Networks for Visual and Textual Question Answering. ArXiv
abs/1603.01417 (2016).
[82] Caiming Xiong, Stephen Merity, and Richard Socher. 2016. Dynamic memory networks for visual and textual question answering. In ICML.
2397–2406.
[83] Rui Yan, Yiping Song, and Hua Wu. 2016. Learning to Respond with Deep Neural Networks for Retrieval-Based Human-Computer Conversation
System. In Proceedings of the 39th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (Pisa, Italy) (SIGIR ’16).
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 55–64.
[84] Rui Yan and Dongyan Zhao. 2018. Coupled Context Modeling for Deep Chit-Chat: Towards Conversations between Human and Computer. In
Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining (London, United Kingdom) (KDD ’18).
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2574–2583.
[85] Rui Yan, Dongyan Zhao, and Weinan E. 2017. Joint Learning of Response Ranking and Next Utterance Suggestion in Human-Computer Conversation
System. In Proceedings of the 40th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (Shinjuku, Tokyo, Japan)
(SIGIR ’17). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 685–694.
[86] Chunfeng Yang, Huan Yan, Donghan Yu, Yong Li, and Dah Ming Chiu. 2017. Multi-site User Behavior Modeling and Its Application in Video
Recommendation. In SIGIR.
[87] Zeping Yu, Jianxun Lian, Ahmad Mahmoody, Gongshen Liu, and Xing Xie. 2019. Adaptive User Modeling with Long and Short-Term Preferences for
Personalized Recommendation. In IJCAI.
[88] Guoshuai Zhao, Zhidan Liu, Yulu Chao, and Xueming Qian. 2020. CAPER: Context-Aware Personalized Emoji Recommendation. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering (2020), 1–1.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Learning to Respond with Your Favorite Stickers: A Framework of
Unifying Multi-Modality and User Preference in Multi-Turn Dialog

33

[89] Xiangyang Zhou, Daxiang Dong, Hua Wu, Shiqi Zhao, Dianhai Yu, Hao Tian, Xuan Liu, and Rui Yan. 2016. Multi-view Response Selection for
Human-Computer Conversation. In EMNLP ’16. Association for Computational Linguistics, Austin, Texas, 372–381.
[90] Xiangyang Zhou, Lu Li, Daxiang Dong, Yi Liu, Ying Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Dianhai Yu, and Hua Wu. 2018. Multi-turn response selection for
chatbots with deep attention matching network. In ACL, Vol. 1. 1118–1127.
[91] Xiao Zhou, Cecilia Mascolo, and Zhongxiang Zhao. 2019. Topic-Enhanced Memory Networks for Personalised Point-of-Interest Recommendation.
In KDD.
[92] Xianda Zhou and William Yang Wang. 2018. MojiTalk: Generating Emotional Responses at Scale. In ACL.
[93] Nengjun Zhu, Jian Cao, Yanchi Liu, Yang Yang, Haochao Ying, and Hui Xiong. 2020. Sequential Modeling of Hierarchical User Intention and
Preference for Next-item Recommendation. In WSDM.
[94] Yu Zhu, Hao Li, Yikang Liao, Beidou Wang, Ziyu Guan, Haifeng Liu, and Deng Cai. 2017. What to Do Next: Modeling User Behaviors by Time-LSTM.
In IJCAI.
[95] Konrad Żołna and Bartłomiej Romański. 2017. User Modeling Using LSTM Networks. In AAAI.

Manuscript submitted to ACM

