VMSMO: Learning to Generate Multimodal Summary for
Video-based News Articles
Mingzhe Li1,2,∗, Xiuying Chen1,2,∗, Shen Gao2 ,
Zhangming Chan1,2 , Dongyan Zhao1,2 and Rui Yan1,2,†
1
Center for Data Science, AAIS, Peking University,Beijing,China
2
Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University,Beijing,China
{li mingzhe,xy-chen,shengao,zhaody,ruiyan}@pku.edu.cn

Abstract

arXiv:2010.05406v1 [cs.CL] 12 Oct 2020

A popular multimedia news format nowadays
is providing users with a lively video and
a corresponding news article, which is employed by influential news media including
CNN, BBC, and social media including Twitter and Weibo. In such a case, automatically
choosing a proper cover frame of the video and
generating an appropriate textual summary of
the article can help editors save time, and readers make the decision more effectively. Hence,
in this paper, we propose the task of Videobased Multimodal Summarization with Multimodal Output (VMSMO) to tackle such a
problem. The main challenge in this task is
to jointly model the temporal dependency of
video with semantic meaning of article. To
this end, we propose a Dual-Interaction-based
Multimodal Summarizer (DIMS), consisting
of a dual interaction module and multimodal
generator. In the dual interaction module,
we propose a conditional self-attention mechanism that captures local semantic information
within video and a global-attention mechanism
that handles the semantic relationship between
news text and video from a high level. Extensive experiments conducted on a large-scale
real-world VMSMO dataset1 show that DIMS
achieves the state-of-the-art performance in
terms of both automatic metrics and human
evaluations.

1

Introduction

Existing experiments (Li et al., 2017) have proven
that multimodal news can significantly improve
users’ sense of satisfaction for informativeness. As
one of these multimedia data forms, introducing
news events with video and textual descriptions is
∗

Equal contribution. Ordering is decided by a coin flip.
Corresponding author.
1
https://github.com/yingtaomj/VMSMO
†

Figure 1: An example of video-based multimodal summarization with multimodal output.

becoming increasingly popular, and has been employed as the main form of news reporting by news
media including BBC, Weibo, CNN, and Daily
Mail. An illustration is shown in Figure 1, where
the news contains a video with a cover picture and
a full news article with a short textual summary. In
such a case, automatically generating multimodal
summaries, i.e., choosing a proper cover frame of
the video and generating an appropriate textual
summary of the article can help editors save time
and readers make decisions more effectively.
There are several works focusing on multimodal
summarization. The most related work to ours is
(Zhu et al., 2018), where they propose the task
of generating textual summary and picking the
most representative picture from 6 input candidates.
However, in real-world applications, the input is
usually a video consisting of hundreds of frames.
Consequently, the temporal dependency in a video
cannot be simply modeled by static encoding methods. Hence, in this work, we propose a novel task,
Video-based Multimodal Summarization with Multimodal Output (VMSMO), which selects cover
frame from news video and generates textual summary of the news article in the meantime.

The cover image of the video should be the
salient point of the whole video, while the textual
summary should also extract the important information from source articles. Since the video and
the article focus on the same event with the same
report content, these two information formats complement each other in the summarizing process.
However, how to fully explore the relationship between temporal dependency of frames in video and
semantic meaning of article still remains a problem, since the video and the article come from two
different space.
Hence, in this paper, we propose a model named
Dual-Interaction-based Multimodal Summarizer
(DIMS), which learns to summarize article and
video simultaneously by conducting a dual interaction strategy in the process. Specifically, we first
employ Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) to encode text and video. Note that by the encoding
RNN, the spatial and temporal dependencies between images in the video are captured. Next, we
design a dual interaction module to let the video
and text fully interact with each other. Specifically,
we propose a conditional self-attention mechanism
which learns local video representation under the
guidance of article, and a global-attention mechanism to learn high-level representation of videoaware article and article-aware video. Last, the
multimodal generator generates the textual summary and extracts the cover image based on the fusion representation from the last step. To evaluate
the performance of our model, we collect the first
large-scale news article-summary dataset associated with video-cover from social media websites.
Extensive experiments on this dataset show that
DIMS significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art
baseline methods in commonly-used metrics by a
large margin.
To summarize, our contributions are threefold:
• We propose a novel Video-based Multimodal Summarization with Multimodal Output
(VMSMO) task which chooses a proper cover
frame for the video and generates an appropriate
textual summary of the article.
• We propose a Dual-Interaction-based Multimodal Summarizer (DIMS) model, which jointly
models the temporal dependency of video with semantic meaning of article, and generates textual
summary with video cover simultaneously.
• We construct a large-scale dataset for
VMSMO, and experimental results demonstrate

that our model outperforms other baselines in terms
of both automatic and human evaluations.

2

Related Work

Our research builds on previous works in three
fields: text summarization, multimodal summarization, and visual question answering.
Text Summarization. Our proposed task bases on
text summarization, the methods of which can be divided into extractive and abstractive methods (Gao
et al., 2020b). Extractive models (Zhang et al.,
2018; Narayan et al., 2018; Chen et al., 2018; Luo
et al., 2019; Xiao and Carenini, 2019) directly pick
sentences from article and regard the aggregate
of them as the summary. In contrast, abstractive
models (Sutskever et al., 2014; See et al., 2017;
Wenbo et al., 2019; Gui et al., 2019; Gao et al.,
2019a; Chen et al., 2019a; Gao et al., 2019b) generate a summary from scratch and the abstractive
summaries are typically less redundant.
Multimodal Summarization. A series of works
(Li et al., 2017, 2018; Palaskar et al., 2019; Chan
et al., 2019; Chen et al., 2019b; Gao et al., 2020a)
focused on generating better textual summaries
with the help of multimodal input. Multimodal
summarization with multimodal output is relatively
less explored. Zhu et al. (2018) proposed to jointly
generate textual summary and select the most relevant image from 6 candidates. Following their
work, Zhu et al. (2020) added a multimodal objective function to use the loss from the textual summary generation and the image selection. However,
in the real-world application, we usually need to
choose the cover figure for a continuous video consisting of hundreds of frames. Consequently, the
temporal dependency between frames in a video
cannot be simply modeled by several static encoding methods.
Visual Question Answering. Visual Question
Answering (VQA) task is similar to our task in
taking images and a corresponding text as input.
Most works consider VQA task as a classification problem and the understanding of image subregions or image recognition becomes particularly
important (Goyal et al., 2017; Malinowski et al.,
2015; Wu et al., 2016; Xiong et al., 2016). As
for the interaction models, one of the state-of-theart VQA models (Li et al., 2019) proposed a positional self-attention with a co-attention mechanism, which is faster than the recurrent neural network (RNN). Guo et al. (2019) devised an image-

Feature Encoder

Dual Interaction Module

Multi-Generator
Fusion gates

Input Video Frames

Frame
Encoder

Segment
Encoder

Matching score

Conditional
self-attention

Selected cover

Input
Article

Text
Encoder

Generated
Summary

Globalattention

Decoder
Editing gate

Figure 2: Overview of DIMS. We divide our model into three parts: (1) Feature Encoder encodes the input article
and video separately; (2) Dual Interaction Module learns fused representation of video and article from different
level; (3) Multi-Generator generates the textual summary and chooses the video cover simultaneously.

question-answer synergistic network, where candidate answers are coarsely scored according to
their relevance to the image and question pair and
answers with a high probability of being correct are
re-ranked by synergizing with image and question.

3

global-attention mechanism between video segment and article to learn different levels of representation of the two inputs.
• Multi-Generator generates the textual summary and chooses the video cover by incorporating
the fused information.

Problem Formulation

Before presenting our approach for the VMSMO,
we first introduce the notations and key concepts.
For an input news article X = {x1 , x2 , . . . , xTd }
which has Td words, we assume there is a ground
truth textual summary Y = {y1 , y2 , . . . , yTy }
which has Ty words. Meanwhile, there is a news
video V corresponding to the article, and we assume there is a ground truth cover picture C that
extracts the most important frame from the video
content. For a given article X and the corresponding video V , our model emphasizes salient parts
of both inputs by conducting deep interaction. The
0
goal is to generate a textual summary Y that successfully grasp the main points of the article and
0
choose a frame picture C that covers the gist of
the video.

4

Model

4.1

Overview

In this section, we propose our Dual Interactionbased Multimodal Summarizer (DIMS), which can
be divided into three parts in Figure 2:
• Feature Encoder is composed of a text encoder
and a video encoder which encodes the input article
and video separately.
• Dual Interaction Module conducts deep interaction, including conditional self-attention and

4.2

Feature Encoder

4.2.1

Text encoder

To model the semantic meaning of the input news
text X = {x1 , x2 , . . . , xTd }, we first use a word
embedding matrix e to map a one-hot representation of each word xi into to a high-dimensional
vector space. Then, in order to encode contextual
information from these embedding representation,
we use bi-directional recurrent neural networks
(Bi-RNN) (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber, 1997) to
model the temporal interactions between words:
hxt = Bi-RNNX (e(xt ), hxt−1 ),

(1)

where hxt denotes the hidden state of t-th step in
Bi-RNN for X. Following (See et al., 2017; Ma
et al., 2018), we choose the long short-term memory (LSTM) as the Bi-RNN cell.
4.2.2

Video Encoder

A news video usually lasts several minutes and consists of hundreds of frames. Intuitively, a video can
be divided into several segments, each of which corresponds to different content. Hence, we choose to
encode video hierarchically. More specifically, we
equally divide frames in the video into several segments and employ a low-level frame encoder and
a high-level segment encoder to learn hierarchical
representation.

Figure 3: Conditional self-attention module, which captures local semantic information within video segments
under the guidance of article representation.

Frame encoder. We utilize the Resnet-v1 model
(He et al., 2016) to encode frames to alleviate gradient vanishing (He et al., 2016) and reduce computational costs:
Oji = Resnet-v1(mij ),

Mji = relu Fv (Oji ) ,

(2)
(3)

where mij is the j-th frame in i-th segment and
Fv (·) is a linear transformation function.
Segment encoder. As mentioned before, it is
important to model the continuity of images in
video, which cannot be captured by a static encoding strategy. We employ RNN network as segment
encoder due to its superiority in exploiting the temporal dependency among frames Zhao et al. (2017):
i
).
Sji = Bi-RNNS (Mji , Sj−1

(4)

Sji denotes the hidden state of j-th step in Bi-RNN
for segment si , and the final hidden state STi f denotes the overall representation of the segment si ,
where Tf is the number of frames in a segment.
4.3

Dual Interaction Module

The cover image of the video should contain the
key point of the whole video, while the textural
summary should also cover extract the important
information from source articles. Hence, these two
information formats complement each other in the

summarizing process. In this section, we conduct
a deep interaction between the video and article to
jointly model the temporal dependency of video
and semantic meaning of text. The module consists of a conditional self-attention mechanism that
captures local semantic information within video
segments and a global-attention mechanism that
handles the semantic relationship between news
text and video from a high level.
Conditional self-attention mechanism. Traditional self-attention can be used to obtain contextual video representation due to its flexibility in
relating two elements in a distance-agnostic manner. However, as illustrated in Xie et al. (2020),
the semantic understanding often relies on more
complicated dependencies than the pairwise one,
especially conditional dependency upon a given
premise. Hence, in the VMSMO task, we capture
the local semantic information of video conditioned
on the input text information.
Our conditional self-attention module shown in
Figure 3 is composed of a stack of N identical layers and a conditional layer. The identical layer
learns to encode local video segments while the
conditional layer learns to assign high weights to
the video segments conditioned on their relationship to the article. We first use a fully-connected
layer to project each segment representation STi f
into the query Qi , key K i , and value V i . Then, the
scaled dot-product self-attention is defined as:

exp Qi K j
,
(5)
αi,j = PTs
i n
n=1 exp (Q K )
XTs αi,j V j
√ ,
(6)
Ŝi =
j=1
d
where d stands for hidden dimension and Ts is the
segment number in a video. Ŝi is then fed into the
feed-forward sub-layer including a residual connection (He et al., 2016) and layer normalization (Ba
et al., 2016).
Next, we highlight the salient part of the video
under the guidance of article. Taking the article
information hxTd as condition, the attention score
on each original segment representation STi f is calculated as:


βi = σ Fs (STi f hxTd ) .
(7)
The final conditional segment representation Sic is
denoted as βi Ŝi .
Global-attention mechanism. The globalattention module grounds the article representation

on the video segments and fuses the information of
the article into the video, which results in an articleaware video representation and a video-aware article representation. Formally, we utilize a two-way
attention mechanism to obtain the co-attention between the encoded text representation hxt and the
encoded segment representation STi f :

T
Eit = Fh (hxt ) Ft (STi f ) .

(8)

We use Eit to denote the attention weight on the
t-th word by the i-th video segment. To learn the
alignments between text and segment information,
the global representations of video-aware article
ĥxt and article-aware video Ŝic are computed as:
ĥxt =
Ŝic =

XTd
i=1
XTs

Eit STi f ,
T
Eit hxt .

(9)

obtain the generated word distribution Pv :
dot = σ (Fp ([dt ; hct ])) ,

(16)

Pv = softmax (Fo (dot )) .

(17)

Following See et al. (2017), we also equip our
model with pointer network to handle the out-ofvocabulary problem. The loss of textual summary
generation is the negative log likelihood of the target word yt :
Lseq = −

XTy
t=1

log Pv (yt ).

(18)

Cover frame selector. The cover frame is chosen based on hierarchical video representations, i.e.,
the original frame representation Mji and the conditional segment representation Sic with the articleaware segment representation Ŝic :

(10)

pij = γf1 Sic + γf2 Ŝic + (1 − γf1 − γf2 )Mji , (19)

c
yi,j
= σ Fc (pij ) ,
(20)

In the VMSMO task, the multi-generator module
not only needs to generate the textual summary but
also needs to choose the video cover.
Textual summary generation. For the first
task, we use the final state of the input text representation hxTd as the initial state d0 of the RNN
decoder, and the t-th generation procedure is:

c is the matching score of the candidate
where yi,j
frames. The fusion gates γf1 and γf2 here are determined by the last text encoder hidden state hxTd :

4.4

t=1

Multi-Generator

dt = LSTMdec (dt−1 , [e(yt−1 ); hct−1 ]),

(11)

where dt is the hidden state of the t-th decoding
step and hct−1 is the context vector calculated by
the standard attention mechanism (Bahdanau et al.,
2014), and is introduced below.
To take advantage of the article representation
hxt and the video-aware article representation ĥxt ,
we apply an “editing gate” γe to decide how much
information of each side should be focused on:
γe = σ (Fd (dt )) ,

(12)

gi = γe hxi + (1 − γe )ĥxi .

(13)

Then the context vector hct−1 is calculated as:
exp(Fa (gi , dt ))
δit = P
.
j exp(Fa (gj , dt ))
X
hct =
δit gi ,
i

(14)
(15)

Finally, the context vector hct is concatenated with
the decoder state dt and fed into a linear layer to


γf1 = σ Fm (hxTd ) ,

γf2 = σ Fn (hxTd ) .

(21)
(22)

We use pairwise hinge loss to measure the selection accuracy:
Lpic =

XN


c
c
max 0, ynegative
− ypositive
+ margin ,
(23)

c
c
where ynegative
and ypositive
corresponds to the
matching score of the negative samples and the
ground truth frame, respectively. The margin in the
Lpic is the rescale margin in hinge loss.
The overall loss for the model is:

L = Lseq + Lpic .

5

Experimental Setup

5.1

Dataset

(24)

To our best knowledge, there is no existing largescale dataset for VMSMO task. Hence, we collect
the first large-scale dataset for VMSMO task from
Weibo, the largest social network website in China.
Most of China’s mainstream media have Weibo
accounts, and they publish the latest news in their

accounts with lively videos and articles. Correspondingly, each sample of our data contains an
article with a textual summary and a video with a
cover picture. The average video duration is one
minute and the frame rate of video is 25 fps. For
the text part, the average length of article is 96.84
words and the average length of textual summary
is 11.19 words. Overall, there are 184,920 samples
in the dataset, which is split into a training set of
180,000 samples, a validation set of 2,460 samples,
and a test set of 2,460 samples.
5.2

R-2

R-L

extractive summarization
Lead
TextRank

16.2
13.7

5.3
4.0

13.9
12.5

abstractive summarization
PG (See et al., 2017)
Unified (Hsu et al., 2018)
GPG (Shen et al., 2019)

19.4
23.0
20.1

6.8
6.0
4.5

17.4
20.9
17.3

our models
DIMS

25.1

9.6

23.2

Table 1: Rouge scores comparison with traditional textual summarization baselines.

Comparisons

We compare our proposed method against summarization baselines and VQA baselines.
Traditional Textual Summarization baselines:
Lead: selects the first sentence of article as the
textual summary (Nallapati et al., 2017).
TexkRank: a graph-based extractive summarizer
which adds sentences as nodes and uses edges to
weight similarity (Mihalcea and Tarau, 2004).
PG: a sequence-to-sequence framework combined
with attention mechanism and pointer network (See
et al., 2017).
Unified: a model which combines the strength
of extractive and abstractive summarization (Hsu
et al., 2018).
GPG: Shen et al. (2019) proposed to generate textual summary by “editing” pointed tokens instead
of hard copying.
Multimodal baselines:
How2: a model proposed to generate textual summary with video information (Palaskar et al., 2019).
Synergistic: a image-question-answer synergistic
network to value the role of the answer for precise
visual dialog(Guo et al., 2019).
PSAC: a model adding the positional self-attention
with co-attention on VQA task (Li et al., 2019).
MSMO: the first model on multi-output task,
which paid attention to text and images during generating textual summary and used coverage to help
select picture (Zhu et al., 2018).
MOF: the model based on MSMO which added
consideration of image accuracy as another loss
(Zhu et al., 2020).
5.3

R-1

Evaluation Metrics

The quality of generated textual summary is evaluated by standard full-length Rouge F1 (Lin, 2004)
following previous works (See et al., 2017; Chen
et al., 2018). R-1, R-2, and R-L refer to unigram,

bigrams, and the longest common subsequence respectively. The quality of chosen cover frame is
evaluated by mean average precision (MAP) (Zhou
et al., 2018) and recall at position (Rn @k) (Tao
et al., 2019). Rn @k measures if the positive sample is ranked in the top k positions of n candidates.
5.4

Implementation Details

We implement our experiments in Tensorflow (Abadi et al., 2016) on an NVIDIA GTX 1080
Ti GPU. The code for our model is available online2 . For all models, we set the word embedding
dimension and the hidden dimension to 128. The
encoding step is set to 100, while the minimum
decoding step is 10 and the maximum step is 30.
For video preprocessing, we extract one of every
120 frames to obtain 10 frames as cover candidates.
All candidates are resized to 128x64. We regard the
frame that has the maximum cosine similarity with
the ground truth cover as the positive sample, and
others as negative samples. Note that the average
cosine similarity of positive samples is 0.90, which
is a high score, demonstrating the high quality of
the constructed candidates. In the conditional selfattention mechanism, the stacked layer number is
set to 2. For hierarchical encoding, each segment
contains 5 frames. Experiments are performed with
a batch size of 16. All the parameters in our model
are initialized by Gaussian distribution. During
training, we use Adagrad optimizer as our optimizing algorithm and we also apply gradient clipping
with a range of [−2, 2]. The vocabulary size is
limited to 50k. For testing, we use beam search
with beam size 4 and we decode until an end-ofsequence token is reached. We select the 5 best
checkpoints based on performance on the validation set and report averaged results on the test set.
2

https://github.com/yingtaomj/VMSMO

R-1

R-2

R-L

MAP

R10 @1

R10 @2

R10 @5

video-based summarization
How2 (Palaskar et al., 2019)

21.7

6.1

19.0

-

-

-

-

Visual Q&A methods
Synergistic (Guo et al., 2019)
PSAC (Li et al., 2019)

-

-

-

0.588
0.524

0.444
0.363

0.557
0.481

0.759
0.730

multimodal summarization with multimodal output
MSMO (Zhu et al., 2018)
MOF (Zhu et al., 2020)

20.1
21.3

4.6
5.7

17.3
17.9

0.554
0.615

0.361
0.455

0.551
0.615

0.820
0.817

our models
DIMS
DIMS-textual summary
DIMS-cover frame

25.1
22.0
-

9.6
6.3
-

23.2
19.2
-

0.654
0.611

0.524
0.449

0.634
0.610

0.824
0.823

ablation study
DIMS-G
DIMS-S

23.7
24.4

7.4
8.9

21.7
22.5

0.624
0.404

0.471
0.204

0.619
0.364

0.819
0.634

Table 2: Rouge and Accuracy scores comparison with multimodal baselines.

How2
MOF
Unified
DIMS

QA(%)

Rating

46.2
51.3
53.8
66.7

-0.24
-0.14
0.00
0.38

Table 3: System scores based on questions answered
by human and summary quality rating.

6

Experimental Result

6.1

Overall Performance

We first examine whether our DIMS outperforms
other baselines as listed in Table 1 and Table 2.
Firstly, abstractive models outperform all extractive
methods, demonstrating that our proposed dataset
is suitable for abstractive summarization. Secondly, the video-enhanced models outperform traditional textural summarization models, indicating that video information helps generate summary. Finally, our model outperforms MOF by
17.8%, 68.4%, 29.6%, in terms of Rouge-1, Rouge2, Rouge-L, and 6.3%, 15.2% in MAP and R@1
respectively, which proves the superiority of our
model. All our Rouge scores have a 95% confidence interval of at most ±0.55 as reported by the
official Rouge script.
In addition to automatic evaluation, system performance was also evaluated on the generated textual summary by human judgments on 70 randomly selected cases similar to Liu and Lapata
(2019). Our first evaluation study quantified the
degree to which summarization models retain key
information from the articles following a questionanswering (QA) paradigm (Narayan et al., 2018).

A set of questions was created based on the gold
summary. Then we examined whether participants
were able to answer these questions by reading system summaries alone. We created 183 questions in
total varying from two to three questions per gold
summary. Correct answers were marked with 1 and
0 otherwise. The average of all question scores is
set to the system score.

Our second evaluation estimated the overall quality of the textual summaries by asking participants
to rank them according to its Informativeness (does
the summary convey important contents about the
topic in question?), Coherence (is the summary
fluent and grammatical?), and Succinctness (does
the summary avoid repetition?). Participants were
presented with the gold summary and summaries
generated from several systems better on autometrics and were asked to decide which was the best
and the worst. The rating of each system was calculated as the percentage of times it was chosen
as best minus the times it was selected as worst,
ranging from -1 (worst) to 1 (best).

Both evaluations were conducted by three nativespeaker annotators. Participants evaluated summaries produced by Unified, How2, MOF and
our DIMS, all of which achieved high perfromance
in automatic evaluations. As shown in Table 3, on
both evaluations, participants overwhelmingly prefer our model. All pairwise comparisons among
systems are statistically significant using the paired
student t-test for significance at α = 0.01.

n
d
n
o
Tw ld me n han ibitio
o
di
xh
n
e
a
t
h
isi

v

's

面

画

s
e
tur
eye
pic king
stri

目
注
人
引

6

。

位 老人 牵手 展
手
逛
的

两

月

e

Jun

.

27

日

th
27-

，

,

江

苏

展 开展 一天
第

书

gsu Fair tion day
Jian ook xhibi first
B rt e
the
sta

Figure 4: Visualizations of global-attention matrix between the news article and two frames in the same video.

6.2

Ablation Study

Next, we conduct ablation tests to assess the importance of the conditional self-attention mechanism (-S), as well as the global-attention (-G) in
Table 2. All ablation models perform worse than
DIMS in terms of all metrics, which demonstrates
the preeminence of DIMS. Specifically, the globalattention module contributes mostly to the textual
summary generation, while the conditional selfattention module is more important for choosing
cover frame.
6.3

Analysis of Multi-task learning

Our model aims to generate textural summary
and choose cover frame at the same time, which
can be regarded as a multi-task. Hence, in this
section, we examine whether these two tasks
can complement each other. We separate our
model into two single-task architecture, named as
DIMS-textual summary and DIMS-cover
frame, which generates textural summary and
chooses video cover frame, respectively. The
result is shown in Table 2. It can be seen
that the multi-task DIMS outperforms single-task
DIMS-textual summary and DIMS-cover
frame, improving the performance of summarization by 20.8% in terms of ROUGE-L score, and
increasing the accuracy of cover selection by 7.0%
on MAP.
6.4

Visualization of dual interaction module

To study the multimodal interaction module, we
visualize the global-attention matrix Eit in Equation 8 on one randomly sampled case, as shown
in Figure 4. In this case, we show the attention
on article words of two representative images in
the video. The darker the color is, the higher the
attention weight is. It can be seen that for the left
figure, the word hand in hand has a higher weight
than picture, while for the right figure, the word
Book Fair has the highest weight. This corresponds
to the fact that the main body of the left frame is
two old men, and the right frame is about reading
books.

Article: On August 26, in Shanxi Ankang, a 12-year-old
junior girl Yu Taoxin goose-stepped like parade during
the military training in the new semester, and won thousands of praises. Yu Taoxin said that her father was a
veteran, and she worked hard in military training because
of the influence of her father. Her father told her that military training should be strict as in the army. 8月26日，
陕西安康，12岁的初一女生余陶鑫，在新学期军训
期间，她踢出阅兵式般的标准步伐，获千万点赞。
余陶鑫说，爸爸是名退伍军人，军训刻苦是因为受
到爸爸影响，爸爸曾告诉她，军训时就应和在部队
里一样，严格要求自己。
Reference summary: A 12-year-old girl goose-stepped
like parade during the military training, “My father is a
veteran.” 12岁女孩军训走出阅兵式步伐，“爸爸是
退伍军人”
QA: What happened on the 12-year-old girl? [She
goose-stepped like parade.] 这 个12岁 女 孩 做 了 什
么？[她走出阅兵式步伐。]
Why did she do this? [She was influenced by her father]
她为什么这样做？[她受到爸爸的影响。]
Unfied: 12-year-old gril Yu Taoxin goose-stepped during military training. 12岁女生余陶鑫军训期间阅兵
式般的标准步伐
How2: 12-year-old girls were organized military training, and veteran mother parade. 12岁女生组团军训，
退伍军人妈妈阅兵式
MOF: A 12-year-old junior citizen [unk]: father gave a
kicked like. 1名12岁初一市民[unk]：爸爸踢式点赞
DIMS: A 12-year-old junior girl goose-stepped like parade: My father is a veteran, and military training should
be strict as in the army. 12岁初一女生踢出阅兵式：
爸爸是名退伍军人，军训时就应和在部队一样
Ground Truth

MOF

DIMS

Table 4: Examples of the generated summary by baselines and DIMS.

We show a case study in Table 4, which includes the input article and the generated summary
by different models. We also show the questionanswering pair in human evaluation and the chosen
cover. The result shows that the summary generated by our model is both fluent and accurate, and
the cover frame chosen is also similar to the ground
truth frame.

7

Conclusion

In this paper, we propose the task of Video-based
Multimodal Summarization with Multimodal Output (VMSMO) which chooses a proper video cover
and generates an appropriate textual summary for a
video-attached article. We propose a model named
Dual-Interaction-based Multimodal Summarizer
(DIMS) including a local conditional self-attention
mechanism and a global-attention mechanism to
jointly model and summarize multimodal input.
Our model achieves state-of-the-art results in terms
of autometrics and outperforms human evaluations
by a large margin. In near future, we aim to incorporate the video script information in the multimodal
summarization process.

Acknowledgments
We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers
for their constructive comments. This work was
supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (No.2020AAA0105200),
and the National Science Foundation of China
(NSFC No.61876196, No.61672058). Rui Yan is
partially supported as a Young Fellow of Beijing
Institute of Artificial Intelligence (BAAI).

References
Martı́n Abadi, Paul Barham, Jianmin Chen, Zhifeng
Chen, Andy Davis, Jeffrey Dean, Matthieu Devin,
Sanjay Ghemawat, Geoffrey Irving, Michael Isard,
et al. 2016. Tensorflow: A system for large-scale
machine learning. In 12th {USENIX} Symposium
on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
({OSDI} 16), pages 265–283.
Jimmy Lei Ba, Jamie Ryan Kiros, and Geoffrey E Hinton. 2016. Layer normalization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1607.06450.
Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014. Neural machine translation by jointly
learning to align and translate. ICLR.
Zhangming Chan, Xiuying Chen, Yongliang Wang,
Juntao Li, Zhiqiang Zhang, Kun Gai, Dongyan Zhao,
and Rui Yan. 2019. Stick to the facts: Learning towards a fidelity-oriented e-commerce product description generation. In Proceedings of the
2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International
Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 4960–4969.
Xiuying Chen, Zhangming Chan, Shen Gao, MengHsuan Yu, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019a.

Learning towards abstractive timeline summarization. In IJCAI, pages 4939–4945.
Xiuying Chen, Shen Gao, Chongyang Tao, Yan Song,
Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2018. Iterative document representation learning towards summarization
with polishing. In EMNLP, pages 4088–4097.
Xiuying Chen, Daorui Xiao, Shen Gao, Guojun Liu,
Wei Lin, Bo Zheng, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan.
2019b. Rpm-oriented query rewriting framework
for e-commerce keyword-based sponsored search.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.12527.
Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Piji Li, Zhangming Chan,
Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019a. How to write
summaries with patterns? learning towards abstractive summarization through prototype editing. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1909.08837.
Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Piji Li, Zhaochun Ren, Lidong Bing, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019b. Abstractive text summarization by incorporating reader
comments. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference
on Artificial Intelligence, volume 33, pages 6399–
6406.
Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Chang Liu, Li Liu, Dongyan
Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2020a. Learning to respond with
stickers: A framework of unifying multi-modality in
multi-turn dialog. In Proceedings of The Web Conference 2020, pages 1138–1148.
Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Zhaochun Ren, Dongyan
Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2020b. From standard summarization to new tasks and beyond: Summarization
with manifold information. In IJCAI.
Yash Goyal, Tejas Khot, Douglas Summers-Stay,
Dhruv Batra, and Devi Parikh. 2017. Making the
v in vqa matter: Elevating the role of image understanding in visual question answering. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 6904–6913.
Min Gui, Junfeng Tian, Rui Wang, and Zhenglu Yang.
2019. Attention optimization for abstractive document summarization. In EMNLP/IJCNLP.
Dalu Guo, Chang Xu, and Dacheng Tao. 2019. Imagequestion-answer synergistic network for visual dialog. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 10434–
10443.
Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian
Sun. 2016. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In CVPR, pages 770–778.
Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber. 1997. Long
short-term memory. Neural Computation, 9:1735–
1780.
Wan-Ting Hsu, Chieh-Kai Lin, Ming-Ying Lee, Kerui
Min, Jing Tang, and Min Sun. 2018. A unified
model for extractive and abstractive summarization
using inconsistency loss. ACL.

Haoran Li, Junnan Zhu, Tianshang Liu, Jiajun Zhang,
Chengqing Zong, et al. 2018. Multi-modal sentence
summarization with modality attention and image filtering. IJCAI-PRICAI.
Haoran Li, Junnan Zhu, Cong Ma, Jiajun Zhang,
Chengqing Zong, et al. 2017. Multi-modal summarization for asynchronous collection of text, image,
audio and video. EMNLP/IJCNLP.
Xiangpeng Li, Jingkuan Song, Lianli Gao, Xianglong
Liu, Wenbing Huang, Xiangnan He, and Chuang
Gan. 2019. Beyond rnns: Positional self-attention
with co-attention for video question answering. In
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 33, pages 8658–8665.
Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. Rouge: A package for automatic
evaluation of summaries. In Text summarization
branches out, pages 74–81.
Yang Liu and Mirella Lapata. 2019. Hierarchical transformers for multi-document summarization. ACL.
Ling Luo, Xiang Ao, Y. S. Song, Feiyang Pan, Min
Yang, and Qing He. 2019. Reading like her: Human reading inspired extractive summarization. In
EMNLP/IJCNLP.
Shuming Ma, Xu Sun, Junyang Lin, and Xuancheng
Ren. 2018. A hierarchical end-to-end model for
jointly improving text summarization and sentiment
classification. IJCAI-PRICAI.
Mateusz Malinowski, Marcus Rohrbach, and Mario
Fritz. 2015. Ask your neurons: A neural-based approach to answering questions about images. In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on
computer vision, pages 1–9.
Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau. 2004. Textrank: Bringing order into text. In EMNLP.
Ramesh Nallapati, Feifei Zhai, and Bowen Zhou. 2017.
Summarunner: A recurrent neural network based sequence model for extractive summarization of documents. In Thirty-First AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence.
Shashi Narayan, Shay B. Cohen, and Mirella Lapata.
2018. Ranking sentences for extractive summarization with reinforcement learning. In NAACL-HLT.
Shruti Palaskar, Jindrich Libovickỳ, Spandana Gella,
and Florian Metze. 2019. Multimodal abstractive
summarization for how2 videos. ACL.
Abigail See, Peter J. Liu, and Christopher D. Manning.
2017. Get to the point: Summarization with pointergenerator networks. In ACL.
Xiaoyu Shen, Yang Zhao, Hui Su, and Dietrich Klakow.
2019. Improving latent alignment in text summarization by generalizing the pointer generator. In
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the

9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 3753–
3764.
I Sutskever, O Vinyals, and QV Le. 2014. Sequence to
sequence learning with neural networks. Advances
in NIPS.
Chongyang Tao, Wei Wu, Can Xu, Wenpeng Hu,
Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2019.
Multirepresentation fusion network for multi-turn response selection in retrieval-based chatbots. WSDM,
pages 267–275.
Wang Wenbo, Yang Gao, Huang Heyan, and Yuxiang
Zhou. 2019. Concept pointer network for abstractive summarization. In EMNLP/IJCNLP.
Qi Wu, Peng Wang, Chunhua Shen, Anthony Dick,
and Anton Van Den Hengel. 2016. Ask me anything: Free-form visual question answering based on
knowledge from external sources. In Proceedings of
the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 4622–4630.
Wen Xiao and Giuseppe Carenini. 2019. Extractive
summarization of long documents by combining
global and local context. In EMNLP/IJCNLP.
Yujia Xie, Tianyi Zhou, Yi Mao, and Weizhu Chen.
2020. Conditional self-attention for query-based
summarization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.07338.
Caiming Xiong, Stephen Merity, and Richard Socher.
2016. Dynamic memory networks for visual and
textual question answering. In International conference on machine learning, pages 2397–2406.
Xingxing Zhang, Mirella Lapata, Furu Wei, and Ming
Zhou. 2018. Neural latent extractive document summarization. EMNLP/IJCNLP.
Bin Zhao, Xuelong Li, and Xiaoqiang Lu. 2017. Hierarchical recurrent neural network for video summarization. In Proceedings of the 25th ACM international conference on Multimedia, pages 863–871.
Xiangyang Zhou, Lu Li, Daxiang Dong, Yi Liu, Ying
Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Dianhai Yu, and Hua
Wu. 2018. Multi-turn response selection for chatbots with deep attention matching network. ACL,
1:1118–1127.
Junnan Zhu, Haoran Li, Tianshang Liu, Yu Zhou, Jiajun Zhang, Chengqing Zong, et al. 2018. Msmo:
multimodal summarization with multimodal output.
EMNLP/IJCNLP.
Junnan Zhu, Yu Zhou, Jiajun Zhang, Haoran Li,
Chengqing Zong, and Changliang Li. 2020. Multimodal summarization with guidance of multimodal
reference. Image, 3:4–64.

