Mingzhe Li∗

Xiuying Chen*

Jing Xiang

Ant Group
limingzhe.lmz@antgroup.com

CBRC, KAUST
xiuying.chen@kaust.edu.sa

Ant Group
liping.xj@antgroup.com

Qishen Zhang†

Changsheng Ma

Chenchen Dai

Ant Group
qishen.zqs@antgroup.com

CBRC, KAUST
changsheng.ma@kaust.edu.sa

Ant Group
daichenchen.dcc@antgroup.com

Jinxiong Chang

Zhongyi Liu

Guannan Zhang

Ant Group
jinxiong.cjx@antfin.com

Ant Group
zhongyi.lzy@alibaba-inc.com

Ant Group
zgn138592@antgroup.com
Input Query

ABSTRACT
Text matching systems have become a fundamental service in most
Searching platforms. For instance, they are responsible for matching
user queries to relevant candidate items, or rewriting the user-input
query to a pre-selected high-performing one for a better search
experience. In practice, both the queries and items often contain
multiple attributes, such as the category of the item and the location
mentioned in the query, which represent condensed key information that is helpful for matching. However, most of the existing
works downplay the effectiveness of attributes by integrating them
into text representations as supplementary information. Hence,
in this work, we focus on exploring the relationship between the
attributes from two sides. Since attributes from two ends are often
not aligned in terms of number and type, we propose to exploit
the benefit of attributes by multiple-intent modeling. The intents
extracted from attributes summarize the diverse needs of queries
and provide rich content of items, which are more refined and
abstract, and can be aligned for paired inputs. Concretely, we propose a multi-intent attribute-aware matching model (MIM), which
consists of three main components: attribute-aware encoder, multiintent modeling, and intent-aware matching. In the attribute-aware
encoder, the text and attributes are weighted and processed through
a scaled attention mechanism with regard to the attributes’ importance. Afterward, the multi-intent modeling extracts intents from
two ends and aligns them. Herein, we come up with a distribution
loss to ensure the learned intents are diverse but concentrated, and
a kullback–leibler divergence loss that aligns the learned intents.
Finally, in the intent-aware matching, the intents are evaluated by a
self-supervised masking task, and then incorporated to output the
final matching result. Extensive experiments on three real-world
* Both authors contributed equally to this research.
† Corresponding author.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
WSDM ’24, March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0371-3/24/03. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3616855.3635813

How to get to Hangzhou Railway Station without change? Urgent!
Query Attribute
Location: Hangzhou

Entity: Railway Station

Category: Travel Guide

Intent Modeling
Rewrite

arXiv:2402.07788v1 [cs.CL] 12 Feb 2024

Multi-Intent Attribute-Aware Text Matching in Searching

Transportation Payment Importance

✔

Query Attribute #1
Location: Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province
Entity: Subway E-Ticket
Category: Public Traffic

Open the Hangzhou Subway
E-Ticket in Zhejiang Province
Candidate Query #1

✘

Query Attribute #2
Location: Hangzhou
Entity: Mobile Phone
Category: Communication

Can I use a mobile phone to access
the Internet on the Hangzhou Subway?
Candidate Query #2

Figure 1: The application of our text matching task in query
rewriting scenarios. The model rewrites the given query to
pre-selected high-performing queries.

datasets from different matching scenarios show that MIM significantly outperforms state-of-the-art matching baselines. MIM is also
tested by online A/B test, which brings significant improvements
over three business metrics in query rewriting and query-item
relevance tasks compared with the online baseline in Alipay App.

CCS CONCEPTS
• Information systems → Web searching and information
discovery.

KEYWORDS
Text matching, Multi-Intent, Searching, Attribute-Aware Recommendation, Cross Multi-Head Attention
ACM Reference Format:
Mingzhe Li, Xiuying Chen, Jing Xiang, Qishen Zhang, Changsheng Ma,
Chenchen Dai, Jinxiong Chang, Zhongyi Liu, Guannan Zhang. 2024. MultiIntent Attribute-Aware Text Matching in Searching. In Proceedings of the
17th ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining (WSDM
’24), March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3616855.3635813

WSDM ’24, March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico

Mingzhe Li et al.

Intent 1: cost-effective
Dove Beauty Bar
Gender: Unisex
Price: $ 15.73
Usage: Body and Facial Cleanser
Function: Softer Skin Care
Color: Green
Query Attributes

✘

Dove Men+Care
Gender: Men
Price: $ 3.97
Usage: Body and Facial Cleanser
Function: Clean and Hydrate Skin
Color: Matcha

✔︎

Intent 2: skin clean
Manual Toilet Seat
Gender: Unisex
Price: $ 129.99
Usage: Non-electric Flushing
Function: Increased Comfort
Color: White

✘

HEETA Body Brush
Gender: Unisex
Price: $ 6.83
Usage: Wet Dry Brushing
Function: Gentle Exfoliating
Color: Black

✔︎

Intent 3: light color
Dnc Back Scrubber
Gender: Unisex
Price: $ 12.99
Usage: Brushing Body Softly
Function: Long Handle Helping
Color: Black

Search Result without Intents

✘

Metene Shower
Gender: Unisex
Price: $ 9.99
Usage: Brushing with Shampoo
Function: Gentle Exfoliating
Color: Cream

Metene Shower
Gender: Unisex
Price: $ 9.99
Usage: Brushing with Shampoo
Function: Gentle Exfoliating
Color: Cream

✔︎

Dual-Sided Back Brush
Gender: Unisex
Price: $ 9.99
Usage: Stiff and Soft Bristles
Function: Body Exfoliator
Color: White

Search Result with Intents

Figure 2: The application of our model in the query-item matching setting. The model identifies multiple intents on “costeffective”, “skin clean”, and “light color”, based on which it conducts query-item matching to return relevant items to the users.

1

INTRODUCTION

Search engines are one of the most important technologies nowadays. Traditional search engines build inverted indexes based on
queries and documents to accomplish information retrieval. With
the richness of search content, modern systems start to store key
information of queries and items by attributes, such as brands, entities, and regions [28]. Such information can help classify whether
the queries or items match each other. For example, in the query
rewriting task in Figure 1, when a user inputs a query, the matching
system can identify the related attributes, and rewrite the query
to high-performing queries in a curated set, so as to increase the
chance of matching relevant items further. Another application
is the query-item matching task in Figure 2, where the system
matches the query to related items, also based on the attributes.
Various approaches have been adopted for text matching with
attributes in search platforms [18, 30, 33]. Recently, deep-learningbased approaches become popular, which typically represent queries
and items with low-dimensional vectors. To name a few, [40] extracted keywords and intents from the input texts as attributes, and
enhances the matching from different granularities. [11] treated
multiple additional inputs as attributes, and explicitly represented
each attribute as an embedding, which is further fused into the
input embeddings. Most recently, [31] considered the relationship
between attributes and input text by introducing an attribute fusion
layer to identify the most relevant features.
The above works show that attributes play an important role in
text matching task. However, they mainly integrate the attribute
information into the text representation, underplaying the effectiveness of attributes. Since attributes contain a condensed form
of information in the input, we assume that modeling the relationship between the attributes of two sides is decisive in the matching
tasks. Nevertheless, attributes from two ends are often not aligned
in terms of number and type, and directly matching them is counterintuitive. We give a real-world example here in Figure 2. The
query “Macaroon color bath artifacts for students in bathroom”
with attributes “students”, “bath artifacts” and “macaroon color”
can be matched with the back rub, which has a low price fit for a
student and light color that belongs to the macaroon color scheme.

However, the number of attributes for the items is different from
that of the query, and the attribute content does not directly correspond to the query either. Thus, a deeper and more comprehensive
understanding of the attributes is required. In this paper, we resort
to the “intents” of the text, which is a more abstract and representative concept that reflects the customers’ needs. A suitable rewriting
query or an item will always meet the customers’ intents. In the
above case, once the model understands the query by its intents
on “cost-effective”, “light color”, and “skin clean”, it can match the
query to the proper items.
Motivated by the above observation, in this paper, a novel multiintent attribute-aware matching framework (MIM) is proposed.
Specifically, MIM consists of three main components: attributeaware encoder, multi-intent modeling, and intent-aware matching.
Firstly, an attribute-aware encoder processes the query and attributes from two inputs together, to let information flow across
both parts. Considering that different attributes have different impacts on the matching performance, we propose a scale attention
mechanism and assign different weights to the attributes in the
encoding process. Afterward, a multi-intent modeling module extracts a number of intent representations from the attribute-aware
representations, where each intent reflects a different intention of
the user. To ensure the learned intents can represent diverse perspectives of the input text while also closely related to the text gist,
we come up with a distribution loss. This loss pushes the intent representations far away from each other but centered around the text
representation. We further propose a kullback-leibler loss to align
the intent distributions and match the learned intents from two
sides. Finally, an intent-aware matching module takes the learned
intent and text representations as input to give the final matching
result. Since some salient intents can be decisive in the matching
evaluation, while other second-order intents may play a less important role, we come up with a self-supervision task to evaluate
the importance of each intent. Concretely, we mask each intent
and see how the change influences the objective loss. If the performance gets worse, which means that the intent is important for
the final decision, we increase its corresponding weight and vice
versa. Offline experiments on three real-world datasets in different

Multi-Intent Attribute-Aware Text Matching in Searching

scenarios, and online A/B test experiments on Alipay App verify
the effectiveness of our proposed MIM.
To summarize, our contributions are three-fold:
• We propose MIM for multi-intent text matching learning in
searching systems, which is the first attempt to comprehensively
leverage both query and item textual attributes for multi-intent
understanding.
• To achieve the above goal, we propose an intent-aware encoder,
a multi-intent modeling module, and an intent-aware matching
module, which extract multiple intents from the queries and the
matched intents from the items to perform precise and diverse
candidate matching.
• Extensive experiments on three real-world applications validate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Currently, MIM has
been deployed online, serving hundreds of millions of Alipay users
and yielding significant improvement in commercial metrics.

2

RELATED WORK

E-Commerce Item Relevance Searching. Millions of items can
be found on typical e-commerce platforms. Users go to these platforms and type in search terms to find the things they want. The
success of e-commerce platforms depends on matching the query to
the appropriate items. Users visit these platforms and enter search
queries to retrieve their desired items [11, 20]. Therefore, matching the query to the relevant items is essential for the success of
e-commerce platforms [7]. To address the challenge of semantic
alignment between queries and items, several works attempted to
incorporate contextual information [12, 32] to obtain more comprehensive representations. To better learn the relative position of
sentence vectors in the semantic space, [2, 8, 37] provided difficult
negative samples for contrastive learning through optimizing the
sampling strategy. These works generally focused only on the pure
input text of query and item, neglecting the additional attribute
information along with the text, which is proved to be useful in
e-commerce tasks [11, 33]. [40] extracted keywords and abstract intents from sentences and performed semantic matching at different
granularities. [31] modeled the relationship between attributes and
input text by introducing an attribute fusion layer to identify the
most relevant features. However, previous works have undervalued
the effectiveness of attributes by treating them as supplementary
information integrated into text representations. Therefore, in this
work, we concentrate on exploring the relationship between attributes from two sides directly.
Query Rewriting Aside from matching queries to items, another
application of text matching is to rewrite user queries to pre-selected
high-performing queries. The user query might be of poor quality due to colloquial expression, errors in the input system, or the
users’ abridged language [39]. The problem of vocabulary gap is
also pronounced in the e-commerce setting where queries are in
informal language whereas the item titles/descriptions are written
in formal language [12]. [24] proposed to learn a transition probability to delete or replace words at the granularity level. [6] utilized
abstracted keywords to modify the semantic representation of the
input text. [27] formulated query rewriting into a cyclic machine
translation problem to leverage abundant click log data. Further,
in this paper, not only the attribute information is differentially

WSDM ’24, March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico

incorporated into the semantic information, but also the alignment
relationship between the two input texts at different levels of granularity is learned by extracting the intent embedded in the attributes.
Multi-Intent Modeling. Due to the diversity of the text and multiple matching possibilities in the text-matching task, multi-intent
based encoding methods have been explored for better matching
performance [3, 5, 17]. For example, [4] extracted multi-interests
from the user’s historical behaviors and profile information to enhance candidate matching performance in the recommendation
system. [16] applied the multi-intent ideology in news recommendation and proposed a poly attention scheme to learn multiple interest vectors for each user, which encodes the different intentions
of the user. A variation of multi-intent, i.e., multi-view modeling,
has also been explored. [38] proposed a multi-view document representation learning framework since a document can usually answer
multiple potential queries from different views. [26] proposed a
multi-view link prediction task to determine the entity candidates
that belong to the correct concepts in the commonsense view and
face view. However, to the best of our knowledge, no works explore
the multi-intent phenomenon in the text matching field in Searching. In this work, we come up with a multi-intent modeling module
by aggregating information from text and attributes.

3 MODEL
3.1 Problem Formulation
We first introduce the notations and key concepts. For brevity, we
take the scenario of matching a user query to a pre-defined query as
an example, and the settings for query-item matching is similar. For
an input query text 𝑋 = {𝑥 1, 𝑥 2, . . . , 𝑥𝑚 }, where 𝑥𝑖 represents the
𝑖-th word, we assume there are corresponding attributes with the
query such as entities, location area, and category words. We denote
the attributes as 𝐴 = {𝑎 1, 𝑎 2, . . . , 𝑎𝑛𝐴 }, where 𝑛𝐴 is the attribute
𝑙𝑎

number of 𝐴, and 𝑎𝑖 consists of 𝑙𝑖𝑎 words {𝑎𝑖1, 𝑎𝑖2, . . . , 𝑎𝑖𝑖 }. Our aim is
to identify whether the input query matches a rephrased query 𝑌 =
{𝑦1, 𝑦2, . . . , 𝑦𝑛 }, where 𝑦 𝑗 represents the 𝑗-th word. The rephrased
query 𝑌 is also attached with 𝑛𝐵 attributes 𝐵 = {𝑏 1, 𝑏 2, . . . , 𝑏𝑛𝐵 }.
In our multi-intent text matching model, we first extract multiple
intents from the text and attributes, and aggregate information
from the input with intents to generate the final matching score.

3.2

Attribute-aware Encoder

First, we need to learn the semantic meaning of the input text and
attributes from both queries. Considering the superior performance
of attention mechanisms on text-matching task [1, 36], we concatenate the input texts with the attributes. However, we notice that the
importance of attributes is not only derived from their relationships
with other input units, but also influenced by their own content.
If the attribute does not convey meaningful information related
to the matching, it should play a less important role in the encoding process. Hence, we propose a scaled self-attention module to
model the temporal interactions between the texts and attributes
in a matching pair.
Concretely, we append a special token “[𝐶𝐿𝑆]” at the beginning
of the concatenated input, and append a special token “[𝑆𝐸𝑃]” to the

WSDM ’24, March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico

Mingzhe Li et al.

(3) Intent-aware Matching

✔︎

✔︎

Mask Loss

✘

Loss before mask

Intent Weight

Loss after mask

Matching Score

✘

✘

✘

✘

✘

Global Interaction

(2) Multi-Intent Modeling

KL
Loss

Intents

Intents

Distribution
Loss

Multi-Intent Extraction

Multi-Intent Extraction

···

···

gate

How to get to Hangzhou Railway
Station without change? Urgent!

Railway Station

Input Query

gate

Hangzhou ···

gate

gate

(1) Attribute-aware Encoder

Travel Guide

Attribute

Open the Hangzhou Subway ETicket in Zhejiang Province

Rewritten Query

Subway E-Ticket

gate

gate

Hangzhou, Zhejiang
Province

···

Public Traffic

Attribute

Figure 3: Overview of MIM, which consists of three parts: (1) Attribute-aware Encoder obtains vector representations for the
queries and attributes based on cross-attention and attribute-weighting; (2) Multi-Intent Modeling extracts multiple diverse
intents related to the queries with two devised losses; (3) Intent-Aware Matching incorporates information from queries and
intents to output the final matching result.
front of each attribute and text. The representation of “[𝑆𝐸𝑃]” appended to the 𝑘-th attribute is regarded as the overall representation
of the attribute, denoted as ℎ𝑘𝐴𝑡𝑡𝑟 . Then, we obtain the 𝑘-th importance gate 𝑔𝑘 based on ℎ𝑘𝐴𝑡𝑡𝑟 : 𝑔𝑘 = 𝜎 (ℎ𝑘𝐴𝑡𝑡𝑟 ), where 𝑘 ∈ [1, 𝑛𝐴 +𝑛𝐵 ],
and 𝜎 (.) is a fully-connected layer with the sigmoid function. Next,
we incorporate the gate values into the attention process. Note that
there can be multiple words in the 𝑘-th attribute, and all the words
correspond to the same importance gate 𝑔𝑘 . For brevity, for the
following part, we change the index of the gate from the attribute
index to the word-level index. Following [34], all inputs are transformed into query 𝑄, key 𝐾, and value 𝑉 through fully connected
layers. The attentive module then takes each 𝑄𝑖 to attend to 𝐾 𝑗
′ = 𝑄 × 𝐾 . Next, the gate score 𝑔 is incorporated in the
as 𝛼𝑖,𝑗
𝑖
𝑗
𝑗
gate-aware softmax operation,
obtaining
attention
distribution 𝛼𝑖,𝑗


′
exp 𝑔 𝑗 ·𝛼𝑖,𝑗

 , where 𝛼𝑖,𝑗 denotes the attention
′
𝑛=1 exp 𝑔 𝑗 ·𝛼𝑖,𝑛

following 𝛼𝑖,𝑗 = Í𝐿

weight between 𝑖-th word to 𝑗-th word, and 𝑔 𝑗 denotes the corresponding attribute weight of the 𝑗-th word. These output attention
distribution results are used as weights to gain the weighted sum of
Í
𝑉 𝑗 as ℎ𝑖′ = 𝐿𝑗=1 𝛼𝑖,𝑗 ×𝑉 𝑗 . Here, the concatenated sequence length is
Í 𝐴 𝑎
Í 𝐵 𝑏
calculated as 𝐿 = 𝑚+ 𝑛𝑘=1
𝑙𝑘 +𝑛+ 𝑛𝑘=1
𝑙𝑘 . To prevent the vanishing
or exploding of gradients, a layer normalization operation [13] is
also applied on the output of the feed-forward layer.
Herein, we use the corresponding “[SEP]” vector for the 𝑖-th
attribute at the last layer as the updated attribute representations
ℎ𝑖𝐴 and ℎ𝑖𝐵 for 𝐴 and 𝐵 respectively.

3.3

Multi-Intent Modeling

Multiple Intent Extractor. After obtaining the vector representations of the inputs, we aim to analyze and extract the multiple

intents from them. The motivation is twofold. Firstly, taking Figure 1 as an example, a query may reflect the user’s multiple intents
in regard to a candidate rewriting query, e.g., “transportation”, “payment”, and “importance”. On the other hand, two queries can be
similar in terms of word usage but have different semantic meanings. Without intent modeling, it would be hard to identify the
subtle differences and give correct matching results. For example,
“How to use mobile phones to take the Hangzhou Subway?” and
“Can I use a mobile phone to access the Internet on the Hangzhou
Subway?” should not be matched together, since they have different
user intents. Hence, if we can extract the hidden intents behind
the input and evaluate the matching degree between two queries
taking the intents into consideration, the matching will be more
comprehensive and accurate.
Generally, we aggregate attributes into multiple intents based
on the association between them. Considering that the query is
playing a central role during the intent extraction, we treat it as a
condition, which controls the intent extraction process. Concretely,
ℎ𝑋 is concatenated with each updated attribute representation ℎ𝐴𝑗 ,
and the multi-intent can be obtained through attribute-weighted
aggregation:
𝑤𝑐,𝑗 = softmax([ℎ𝑋 ; ℎ𝐴𝑗 ]𝑊 𝐴 + 𝑏 𝐴 ),
T
𝐼𝑐𝑋 = 𝑤𝑐,𝑗
× ℎ𝐴𝑗 ,

(1)
(2)

where [; ] denotes concatenation operation, and 𝑊 𝐴 ∈ R2𝑑 ×𝑐 and
𝑏 𝐴 ∈ R𝑐 are learnable matrices. The weight 𝑤𝑐,𝑗 aggregates 𝑛𝐴
attributes into 𝑐 intents. In this way, we obtain the multi-intent
𝐼 𝑋 ∈ R𝑐 ×𝑑 of input query 𝑋 , where 𝑑 is the hidden dimension. The
intent extraction of rewritten query 𝑌 with attributes 𝐵 is similar,
and we denote it as 𝐼 𝑌 .

Multi-Intent Attribute-Aware Text Matching in Searching

WSDM ’24, March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico

Distribution Loss. Intuitively, we want the learned intents
to be diverse and conclude all the interests implied by the query.
However, multiple intents can usually degrade into one, as shown
in similar one-to-many architectures such as the mixture of experts
[41] and multi-view matching [38]. On the other hand, the semantic
meaning of learned intents should be closely related to that of the
user query. Hence, we come up with a distribution loss, which
pushes the representations of multiple intents to be far from each
other, but centered around the query representation. Concretely, we
calculate the similarity between each pair of intents and between
the query and intent. The distribution loss minimizes the similarity
between intents and their distance to the query representation:
∗

L𝑑𝑖𝑠 = E[−log Í

𝑒 𝑐𝑜𝑠 (𝐼𝑖 ,ℎ )/𝜏

𝐼𝑖 ,𝐼 𝑗 ∈𝐼 ∗ 𝑒

𝑐𝑜𝑠 (𝐼𝑖 ,𝐼 𝑗 )/𝜏

],

(3)

where 𝜏 denotes the temperature parameter, ∗ can be 𝑋 or 𝑌 . 𝐼𝑖 , 𝐼 𝑗 ∈
𝐼 ∗ is the extracted intents, 𝑐𝑜𝑠 (.) denotes cosine similarity between
the two representations, and ℎ ∗ denotes the query representations
from the attribute-aware encoder.
KL-Divergence Loss. Apart from the distribution restriction on
the process of learning intents, we also have a divergence loss on
the learned intent representations. The motivation is that for paired
queries, their intents in the latent space should also be aligned with
each other. The intent matching is especially important when the
attributes cannot be directly aligned. Hence, for the positive cases
in our training dataset, we come up with the intent KL-divergence
loss to push their intent representations to have similar distributions. On the other hand, for the negative pairs in the training set,
we aim to maximize the KL-divergence. We choose to align the
intent distributions instead of directly pushing the intent representations closer since we emphasize the “matching” of the multiple
representations:


L𝐾𝐿 = D𝐾𝐿 𝑞(𝐼 𝑋 | ℎ𝑋 , ℎ𝑖𝐴 )∥𝑞(𝐼 𝑌 | ℎ𝑌 , ℎ𝑖𝐵 ) ,
(4)
where 𝑞 denotes the statistic distribution of the generated intents.

3.4

The model training is then to maximize this likelihood score for
each positive target item against the rest negative ones:
L𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ = −(𝑠 log(𝑃) + (1 − 𝑠) log(1 − 𝑃)),

L𝑚𝑎𝑠𝑘 =

where 𝑐 is the extracted intent number of each input. Here, the
global information from “[CLS]” token is fused into the matching
process. Finally, the likelihood that the input query 𝑋 should be
rephrased as rewritten query 𝑌 can be obtained as:
𝑃 = 𝜎 (𝐹𝐶 ([ℎ𝑐𝑙𝑠 ; 𝛽 1 𝐼ˆ1 ; . . . ; 𝛽 𝑗 𝐼ˆ𝑗 ])),
where 𝜎 is the sigmoid function.

(6)

2𝑐
∑︁

exp(L𝑛𝑒𝑤 − L𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ ), 𝛽 𝑗 2 ,

(8)

𝑗=1

where = ∥ · ∥ 2 is the L2 norm of the vector.
We use the overall loss L to optimize the parameters of the
end-to-end framework:
L = L𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ + L𝑑𝑖𝑠 + L𝐾𝐿 + L𝑚𝑎𝑠𝑘 .

(9)

4 EXPERIMENTS
4.1 Datasets
Table 1: Dataset statistics.

Amazon

Intent-aware Matching

After obtaining the multi-intent representation, we can utilize them
to help predict the matching degree of the two inputs.
Concretely, we incorporate the intent information into text representations by utilizing attention mechanisms. Remember that in
§ 3.2, we append a “[CLS]” token in front of both inputs. Here, we
apply its polished representation ℎ𝑐𝑙𝑠 output from the attributeaware encoder as a query, and concatenate the intents 𝐼 𝑋 and 𝐼 𝑌
of each input as 𝐼 𝑗 , so as to calculate the intent importance weight
𝛽 𝑗 during the matching:


exp ℎ𝑐𝑙𝑠 × 𝐼 𝑗
𝛽 𝑗 = Í2𝑐
(5)
,
𝑐𝑙𝑠 × 𝐼
𝑡
𝑡 =1 exp ℎ

(7)

where 𝑠 denotes that inputs match (1) or not (0).
Intent-Mask Self-Supervision Task. Motivated by the selfsupervision training from the existing pretrained language models
[14, 22], we propose an intent-mask self-supervision task to identify
intents that are beneficial for the matching and emphasize their
contributions in the matching process. Generally, we iteratively
mask each intent and calculate the matching loss in each case. If the
loss increases by a large margin, it means that the masked intent
is of great importance to the matching performance. Hence, the
model will learn to assign higher weights to the intent.
The corresponding process is shown in Figure 3, where the loss
before and after masking is denoted by the red and white bars,
respectively. Specifically, we keep the denotation of the original
matching loss without the mask as 𝐿𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ , and we denote the loss
after the mask as 𝐿𝑛𝑒𝑤 . Then, the masking loss is defined as:

Alipay
Query Rewriting

Alipay
Query-Item Matching

number of query-item pairs
training dataset size
valid dataset size
test dataset size

1,818,825
27,757
139,306
425,762

number of rewritten query pairs
training dataset size
valid dataset size
test dataset size

32,604
1,253,757
2,347
2,500

number of query-item pairs
training dataset size
valid dataset size
test dataset size

730,027
710,027
10,000
10,000

In this paper, we conduct offline experiments on three real-world
datasets as shown in Table 1, including a public benchmark Amazon [29] and two large-scale industrial datasets that we collected
from Alipay App.
The Amazon dataset is a query-item matching dataset. It provides
a list of up to 40 potentially relevant items for each query. Here
we utilize the English part of the large version for the query-item
matching task. For the input query, we extract key phrases from
it by TextRank [25] as the attributes. As for the item, its attributes
include description, bullet point, brand, color, and source. Following

WSDM ’24, March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico

Mingzhe Li et al.

Table 2: Offline performance of MIM and baselines on Amazon and Alipay datasets. Numbers in bold mean that the improvement
to the best baseline is statistically significant (a two-tailed paired t-test with p-value <0.01).
Amazon

Alipay Query Rewriting

Accuracy

AUC

F1

Accuracy

AUC

F1

Accuracy

AUC

F1

BERT [9]
SimCSE [8]
RankCSE [21]

0.7315
0.7423
0.7495

0.7767
0.7882
0.8071

0.8145
0.8213
0.8247

0.8560
0.8577
0.8649

0.9092
0.9104
0.9192

0.6944
0.7003
0.7218

0.8051
0.8147
0.8154

0.8722
0.8736
0.8785

0.8127
0.8143
0.8166

MVR [38]
MADRAL [11]

0.7492
0.7624

0.8036
0.8177

0.8275
0.8229

0.8622
0.8670

0.9137
0.9188

0.7151
0.7332

0.8137
0.8142

0.8773
0.8758

0.8182
0.8184

BERT-concat
AGREE [31]
Machop [35]
DCMatch [40]

0.7434
0.7681
0.7705
0.7732

0.7941
0.8193
0.8314
0.8356

0.8238
0.8282
0.8303
0.8343

0.8578
0.8624
0.8695
0.8700

0.9197
0.9129
0.9136
0.9208

0.7102
0.7257
0.7384
0.7399

0.8168
0.8169
0.8213
0.8202

0.8764
0.8797
0.8903
0.8847

0.8195
0.8213
0.8340
0.8366

MIM

0.7813

0.8449

0.8413

0.8792

0.9324

0.7506

0.8343

0.9012

0.8431

the official setting, all matching labels are split into training and
test data. We split 10% of the training data as the valid dataset.
The Alipay Query Rewriting dataset is collected from the online Alipay searching platform, where we gather the consecutive
exposure and click logs for four weeks and summarize the highfrequency queries. We randomly sample a set of queries as inputs.
The corresponding candidate rewriting queries are constructed
by human annotators. Each query includes three attributes: entity
(the identified entity), location (geographic information such as
countries, provinces, cities, and regions), and category (functional
categories like transportation, technology, and medical health). In
the construction process for attributes, we asked annotators to exhaustively label a list of possible entities and locations. Then, the
entity and location attributes are obtained by exact string matching with the labeled list. For the category classification, we use a
pretrained model to match the queries to 24 pre-defined categories.
The Alipay Query-Item Matching dataset is also constructed
based on the high-frequency queries obtained above. We obtain potentially relevant items for each query based on user click behavior
log data, and all retrieved items are manually annotated to indicate
whether they are relevant to the query. The extraction of attributes
from queries is consistent with the Query Rewriting dataset. As for
the items, we utilize structured information filled out by users as
attributes, including keyword, category, functionality, and brand.

4.2

Alipay Query-Item Matching

Baselines.

We compared our proposed model against naive text-matching
methods, multi-view methods, and attribute-aware methods.
The naive text-matching baselines include: • BERT [9]: the most
commonly used pre-trained language model for text matching. •
SimCSE [8]: a contrastive learning framework that advances sentence embeddings. • RankCSE [21]: an unsupervised sentence
representation learning method, which incorporates ranking consistency and ranking distillation with contrastive learning.
Next, we compared with baselines that learn multi-view representations for attributes which is similar to our approach: • MVR [38]:
extract multi-view embeddings for one document and align with
different queries. In this paper, we adapt their method to obtain

multi-view representations by concatenating text input and attributes. • MADRAL [11]: introduces multi-attribute prediction
task along with the main matching task to fuse the learned attribute
information with the text semantic meanings.
Finally, we compared with baselines that also introduce attributes
as inputs: • BERT-concat: a baseline that directly concatenates the
input text with attributes as BERT input. • Machop [35] employs
attributes as additional knowledge to guide the model to focus
on key-matching information. • DCMatch [40] designs multiple
supervised tasks to learn different granularities of attribute information for matching. • AGREE [31] introduces an attribute fusion
layer in the item side to incorporate the most relevant item features
into representations.

4.3

Implementation Details

We implemented our experiments in Pytorch on an NVIDIA A100
GPU. For our model and all baselines, we followed the same setting
as described below. We set the truncation length for the Amazon
dataset as 512 and 128 for the Alipay dataset. We set the intent
number to three by default. The model was fine-tuned based on
BERT-base with 12 layers and 768 hidden dimensions, and the other
parameters were all initialized randomly using a zero-mean Gaussian distribution with a std of 0.01. Experiments were performed
with a batch size of 256. We used Adam optimizer [10] as our optimizing algorithm, with a range of [−1, 1] gradient clipping during
training. We selected the 5 best checkpoints based on performance
on the validation set and reported averaged results on the test set.

4.4

Evaluation Metrics

For offline evaluation, we use Accuracy, AUC, and F1 metrics, which
have been widely adopted for candidate matching: • Accuracy
calculates the proportion of correct predictions among all prediction
results. • AUC calculates the area under the ROC curve, which
can better adapt to the phenomenon of class imbalance. • F1 score
balances both recall and precision, and leads to a better judgment
about the performance of the classifier.
For online evaluation, we select a range of core commercial metrics, including the click-through-rate per page view (pvCTR) and

Multi-Intent Attribute-Aware Text Matching in Searching

WSDM ’24, March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico

Table 3: The performance improvements on two scenes of
Alipay App Search with online A/B test.

Method

Alipay Query Rewriting
pvCTR
GR
BR

Alipay Query-Item Matching
pvCTR
GR
BR

online
MIM

+0.0
+0.11%

+0.0
+0.84%

+0.0
+11.95%

-0.0
-13.43%

+0.0
+2.32%

-0.0
-1.15%

Relevance Score metrics consisting of good case rate (GR) and bad
case rate (BR). • pvCTR calculates the average number of clicked
times per search action. • GR is used to evaluate the proportion of
accurate paraphrasing cases, or the proportion of items that fully
meet the user’s query requirements, whose growth reflects the benefits actually brought to the Alipay APP. • BR, corresponding to
GR, calculates the proportion of bad results. Its decrease indicates
that the model has actually solved existing problems.

4.5

Offline Performance

Table 2 shows the experimental results in terms of Accuracy, AUC,
and F1 score on the three datasets. Firstly, the supervised learning
of text matching models performs better than that of representation
learning models. This is because, through task design, the model
can better learn which information in the input data should contribute more to the matching task, while ignoring the parts that may
have meaning but do not contribute much to judging text matching.
For example, even if the recent RankCSE model shows excellent
performance on embedding learning tasks, it still does not perform
as well as several baselines designed for matching, which means
sufficient interaction is decisive in the fusion of information, and its
effectiveness is significant in matching tasks. Secondly, models with
attributes show better performance, suggesting that the attribute
information is of great significance in the text-matching task. In
comparison with the BERT-concat, Machop, and DCMatch show
better ability in candidate matching. This may be mainly attributed to the fact that the Machop and DCMatch can better utilize
attributes. AGREE and MADRAL both have strong performance by
using attributes as additional supervision signals. Thirdly, we find
that multi-aspect modeling is effective in various directions. For
example, MVR is a method with a max-pooling operation on multiview representations, and Machop has multi-attribute structureaware pooling. They both achieve good performance compared
with other baselines. Finally, MIM achieves the best performance
across all the datasets and different metrics. Specifically, MIM outperforms DCMatch by 0.0091 AUC score on Amazon, 0.0116 score
on Alipay Query Rewriting datasets, and 0.0165 score on Alipay
Query-Item Matching tasks, respectively. All pairwise comparisons
among systems are statistically significant using the paired student
t-test for significance at 𝛼 = 0.01. The above observation demonstrates that our method of extracting intents makes better use of the
attributes, and our designed intent alignment mechanism improves
the text-matching performance.

4.6

Online Experiments

Besides the offline experiments, we also conduct online A/B tests
by deploying MIM in the query rewriting and query-item relevance

Table 4: Ablation study of MIM on Amazon dataset. Numbers
in bold indicate that the improvement over the best baseline
is statistically significant.
Accuracy

AUC

F1

MIM

0.7813

0.8449

0.8413

w/o gate score
w/o L𝐾𝐿
w/o L𝑑𝑖𝑠
w/o multi-intent
w/o mask task

0.7763
0.7741
0.7744
0.7664
0.7780

0.8429
0.8403
0.8392
0.8254
0.8435

0.8402
0.8384
0.8387
0.8332
0.8397

matching of the Alipay searching system for seven days. In the control group, the matching strategy deployed in our current online
system follows a similar cross-encoder structure. In the test group,
the proposed MIM is deployed to serve the candidate rewritten
query matching and query-item relevance matching, respectively.
The same recall and ranking strategies are used for a fair comparison, and the averaged A/B test results are reported in Table 3. Note
that the results are reported with relative improvements. Here, it
can be observed that the proposed MIM provides better performance on all online score metrics. Specifically, it outperforms the
current system in terms of the good case rate and bad case rate
by a large margin, which indicates that MIM enhances the user’s
search experience. Our MIM also achieves a relative improvement
of 0.11% and 0.84% in terms of the pvCTR on both scenarios respectively. Therefore, we can conclude that MIM generates better
search results for millions of users in Alipay.

5 ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION
5.1 Ablation Study.
We perform an ablation study on the test set to investigate the
influence of different modules in our proposed MIM model. Modules are tested in four ways: (1) We remove the gate score in the
attribute-aware encoder, and use the original self-attention mechanism instead; (2) we remove the kl loss L𝐾𝐿 which is used to align
the distribution of intents on both sides; (3) we remove the distribution loss L𝑑𝑖𝑠 that models multiple intents distribution around
the text representation; (4) we remove the multi-intent modeling
module completely and directly feed the output from the encoder
to the matching module; (5) we remove the self-supervised mask
task in the intent-aware matching.
Table 4 presents the results on the Amazon dataset. First, the
F1 score drops by 0.0011 after removing the scaled self-attention
mechanism, which indicates that the attribute content is of great
importance to the attention process. Then, the AUC score drops
by 0.0046 and 0.0057 after the L𝐾𝐿 loss and L𝑑𝑖𝑠 are removed, respectively. This shows that restrictions on the learned intents do
help identify matching aspects of two inputs. The F1 score drops
by 0.0081 after the multi-intent modeling is removed. It denotes
establishing the intent modeling in the matching process is necessary to improve the performance of text matching. Finally, we
find that the Accuracy score drops by 0.0033 after the mask loss is
removed. This means that the additional self-supervised task helps
the matching model to benefit from proper intent weights.

0.925
0.900
0.875
0.850
0.825
0.800
0.775
0.750

Mingzhe Li et al.

0.90
Accuracy
AUC
F1 score

Score

Score

WSDM ’24, March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico

0.85

Accuracy
AUC
F1 score

0.80

Table 5: Case study (truncated) for Alipay Query Rewriting Task. • denotes attributes. The highlighted pink-colored
words indicate the aligned needs, and the blue-colored words
show the misaligned information.
Query Rewriting #1

0.75
1

2

3

4

Intent Num

5

(a)

6

All

Entity

Location Classification

Attribute
(b)

Figure 4: (a) Relationship between number of intent and
Accuracy, AUC and F1 score on Alipay test dataset. (b) Performance of MIM after removing different attributes in Alipay
dataset.

How to use mobile phones to
take the Hangzhou Subway?

How do I transfer money
to someone in Beijing
from my phone?

• Entity: Electronic driving license
• Location area: Nationwide
• Category: Electronic certificate inquiry

Relevant Rewritten Query Selected by MIM:
Traffic management 12123

• Entity: Traffic management
• Location area: Nationwide
• Category: Motor vehicle management

Relevant Rewritten Query Selected by DCMatch:
How can I capture a photo for my digital ID?

• Entity: digital ID
• Location area: Nationwide
• Category: Domestic services

Query Rewriting #2

Unpaired Query:

Input Query:

Input Query:
How to check violation records of
electronic driving license?

Input Query:
What is the medical insurance electronic
certificate in Beijing?

• Entity: medical insurance
• Location area: Beijing
• Category: Medical care assurance

Relevant Rewritten Query Selected by MIM:
Beijing citizen electronic health insurance card

• Entity: Insurance card
• Location area: Beijing
• Category: Medical care assurance

Relevant Rewritten Query Selected by DCMatch:
What is the process for purchasing medicine
online using medical insurance in Beijing?

• Entity: Medical insurance
• Location area: Beijing
• Category: Medical health

Attribute:

Attribute:

max

Entity: Money
Location: Beijing
Category: Function

Entity: Mobile phone
Location: Hangzhou
Category: Communication

Rewritten Query:
Operation guide for crosscity money transfer

Attribute:

min

Entity: Operation Guide
Location: Nationwide
Category: Tutorial

Figure 5: Visualization of intent distribution with attributes,
where ten cases are sampled from the test set randomly. The
red nodes, blue nodes, and green nodes represent the intents,
attributes, and queries, respectively.

sample ten cases and project their query, attribute, and intent representations into a two-dimension space with t-SNE [23]. As shown
in Figure 5, the intents of matched queries or items are close to
each other, while the unpaired representations are scattered in the
space. The extracted intents are evenly distributed and surround the
query. The proximity of the intent and attributes of the same query
indicates that the intent effectively summarizes the information
contained in the attributes.

5.3
Number of Intents. We change the intents number in the Aliapy
Query Rewriting dataset from 1 to 6, and report the Accuracy, AUC,
and F1 scores as shown in Figure 4(a). It can be observed that the
metric scores increase with augmenting the number of intents, to
begin with. This is intuitive since one or two intents cannot cover
the diverse semantic meanings of the inputs. After reaching the
upper limit, it begins to drop. This might be because the differences
between intents become trivial, and the model cannot utilize them
well to conduct matching. Generally, our model maintains a high
performance across different intent numbers.
Impact of Each Attribute. We are also interested in each attribute’s contribution, i.e., which attribute is most important for
the text-matching task. To illustrate the effect of attribute representations in MIM, we investigate how MIM performs after removing
each attribute on the Alipay Query Rewriting dataset. We plot the
corresponding Accuracy, AUC, and F1 scores in Figure 4(b). It is
noted that for the Alipay searching scenario, the location area plays
an important role. When we remove this attribute, the performance
of MIM drops the most.

5.2

Visualization of Intent Distribution with
Attributes

Since our extracted intents are represented by vectors, it is hard
to directly obtain their semantic meanings. Herein, we randomly

Case Study.

In Table 5, we randomly select two cases from the Alipay Query
Rewriting datasets, where we show the input queries, attributes of
the queries and items, and output results returned by our MIM and
the best baseline DCMatch. The highlighted pink-colored words
indicate the aligned needs, and the blue-colored words show the
misaligned information. It can be seen that our MIM successfully
captures the intents of checking records and searching for electronic
cards in the original query, and the input query is rewritten to a
more simple, condensed, and accurate query.

6

CONCLUSION

In this paper, we propose a multi-intent attribute-aware text matching model, which matches queries to rewrite queries or items by
attending to attributes and extracting intents. To address the problem that multiple intents collapse into similar representations, we
propose a distribution loss to increase the diversity of the intents
related to the query text. We also come up with a divergence loss to
better pair the learned intents from both sides. We finally employ an
intent-mask self-supervision task to decide the importance of each
intent and incorporate them to output the final matching result. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed
MIM, which currently serves tens of millions of users on Alipay
app online. In the future, we aim to expand textual attribute-aware
matching to multimodal attribute-aware matching.

Multi-Intent Attribute-Aware Text Matching in Searching

REFERENCES
[1] Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2015. Neural machine
translation by jointly learning to align and translate. In ICLR.
[2] Fredrik Carlsson, Amaru Cuba Gyllensten, Evangelia Gogoulou, Erik Ylipää
Hellqvist, and Magnus Sahlgren. 2020. Semantic re-tuning with contrastive
tension. In International conference on learning representations.
[3] Yukuo Cen, Jianwei Zhang, Xu Zou, Chang Zhou, Hongxia Yang, and Jie Tang.
2020. Controllable multi-interest framework for recommendation. In Proceedings
of the 26th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data
Mining. 2942–2951.
[4] Zheng Chai, Zhihong Chen, Chenliang Li, Rong Xiao, Houyi Li, Jiawei Wu,
Jingxu Chen, and Haihong Tang. 2022. User-Aware Multi-Interest Learning for
Candidate Matching in Recommenders. In Proceedings of the 45th International
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval.
1326–1335.
[5] Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Xin Cheng, Qiang Yang, Qishen Zhang,
Xin Gao, and Xiangliang Zhang. 2023. A Topic-aware Summarization Framework
with Different Modal Side Information. SIGIR (2023).
[6] Xiuying Chen, Daorui Xiao, Shen Gao, Guojun Liu, Wei Lin, Bo Zheng, Dongyan
Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2020. RPM-Oriented Query Rewriting Framework for Ecommerce Keyword-Based Sponsored Search (Student Abstract). In Proceedings
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 34. 13769–13770.
[7] Lu Fan, Qimai Li, Bo Liu, Xiao-Ming Wu, Xiaotong Zhang, Fuyu Lv, Guli Lin,
Sen Li, Taiwei Jin, and Keping Yang. 2022. Modeling User Behavior with Graph
Convolution for Personalized Product Search. In Proceedings of the ACM Web
Conference 2022. 203–212.
[8] Tianyu Gao, Xingcheng Yao, and Danqi Chen. 2021. SimCSE: Simple Contrastive
Learning of Sentence Embeddings. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 6894–6910.
[9] Jacob Devlin Ming-Wei Chang Kenton and Lee Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. In
Proceedings of NAACL-HLT. 4171–4186.
[10] Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2014. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980 (2014).
[11] Weize Kong, Swaraj Khadanga, Cheng Li, Shaleen Kumar Gupta, Mingyang
Zhang, Wensong Xu, and Michael Bendersky. 2022. Multi-Aspect Dense Retrieval.
In Proceedings of the 28th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and
Data Mining. 3178–3186.
[12] Lakshya Kumar and Sagnik Sarkar. 2021. Neural Search: Learning Query and
Product Representations in Fashion E-commerce. SIGIR (2021).
[13] Jimmy Lei Ba, Jamie Ryan Kiros, and Geoffrey E Hinton. 2016. Layer normalization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.06450 (2016).
[14] Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman
Mohamed, Omer Levy, Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020. BART:
Denoising Sequence-to-Sequence Pre-training for Natural Language Generation,
Translation, and Comprehension. In Proc. of ACL.
[15] Jinpeng Li, Yingce Xia, Rui Yan, Hongda Sun, Dongyan Zhao, and Tie-Yan Liu.
2021. Stylized dialogue generation with multi-pass dual learning. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems 34 (2021), 28470–28481.
[16] Jian Li, Jieming Zhu, Qiwei Bi, Guohao Cai, Lifeng Shang, Zhenhua Dong, Xin
Jiang, and Qun Liu. 2022. MINER: Multi-Interest Matching Network for News
Recommendation. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
ACL 2022. 343–352.
[17] Mingzhe Li, Xiuying Chen, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, and Rui
Yan. 2020. VMSMO: Learning to Generate Multimodal Summary for Video-based
News Articles. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP). 9360–9369.
[18] Mingzhe Li, Xiexiong Lin, Xiuying Chen, Jinxiong Chang, Qishen Zhang, Feng
Wang, Taifeng Wang, Zhongyi Liu, Wei Chu, Dongyan Zhao, et al. 2022. Keywords
and Instances: A Hierarchical Contrastive Learning Framework Unifying Hybrid
Granularities for Text Generation. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 4432–4441.
[19] Zhenwen Liang, Wenhao Yu, Tanmay Rajpurohit, Peter Clark, Xiangliang Zhang,
and Ashwin Kaylan. 2023. Let GPT be a Math Tutor: Teaching Math Word
Problem Solvers with Customized Exercise Generation. EMNLP (2023).
[20] Jiongnan Liu, Zhicheng Dou, Qiannan Zhu, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2022. A Categoryaware Multi-interest Model for Personalized Product Search. In Proceedings of
the ACM Web Conference 2022. 360–368.
[21] Jiduan Liu, Jiahao Liu, Qifan Wang, Jingang Wang, Wei Wu, Yunsen Xian,
Dongyan Zhao, Kai Chen, and Rui Yan. 2023. RankCSE: Unsupervised Sentence
Representations Learning via Learning to Rank. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.16726

WSDM ’24, March 4–8, 2024, Merida, Mexico

(2023).
[22] Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer
Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. RoBERTa: A
Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach. (2019).
[23] Laurens van der Maaten and Geoffrey Hinton. 2008. Visualizing data using t-SNE.
Journal of machine learning research 9, Nov (2008), 2579–2605.
[24] Ning Miao, Hao Zhou, Lili Mou, Rui Yan, and Lei Li. 2019. Cgmh: Constrained
sentence generation by metropolis-hastings sampling. In Proceedings of the AAAI
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 33. 6834–6842.
[25] Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau. 2004. Textrank: Bringing order into text. In Proceedings of the 2004 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing.
404–411.
[26] Guanglin Niu, Bo Li, Yongfei Zhang, and Shiliang Pu. 2022. CAKE: A Scalable
Commonsense-Aware Framework For Multi-View Knowledge Graph Completion.
In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 2867–2877.
[27] Yiming Qiu, Kang Zhang, Han Zhang, Songlin Wang, Sulong Xu, Yun Xiao, Bo
Long, and Wen-Yun Yang. 2021. Query Rewriting via Cycle-Consistent Translation for E-Commerce Search. In 2021 IEEE 37th International Conference on Data
Engineering (ICDE). IEEE, 2435–2446.
[28] Ahmed Rashed, Shereen Elsayed, and Lars Schmidt-Thieme. 2022. CARCA:
Context and Attribute-Aware Next-Item Recommendation via Cross-Attention.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.06519 (2022).
[29] Chandan K. Reddy, Lluís Màrquez, Fran Valero, Nikhil Rao, Hugo Zaragoza,
Sambaran Bandyopadhyay, Arnab Biswas, Anlu Xing, and Karthik Subbian. 2022.
Shopping Queries Dataset: A Large-Scale ESCI Benchmark for Improving Product
Search. (2022). arXiv:2206.06588
[30] Badrul Sarwar, George Karypis, Joseph Konstan, and John Riedl. 2001. Item-based
collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms. In Proceedings of the 10th
international conference on World Wide Web. 285–295.
[31] Hongyu Shan, Qishen Zhang, Zhongyi Liu, Guannan Zhang, and Chenliang
Li. 2023. Beyond Two-Tower: Attribute Guided Representation Learning for
Candidate Retrieval. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023. 3173–3181.
[32] Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Johannes Daxenberger, and Iryna Gurevych. 2021.
Augmented SBERT: Data Augmentation Method for Improving Bi-Encoders for
Pairwise Sentence Scoring Tasks. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the
North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies. 296–310.
[33] Mohamed Trabelsi, Zhiyu Chen, Shuo Zhang, Brian D Davison, and Jeff Heflin.
2022. StruBERT: Structure-aware BERT for Table Search and Matching. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2022. 442–451.
[34] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones,
Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all
you need. Advances in neural information processing systems 30 (2017).
[35] Jin Wang, Yuliang Li, Wataru Hirota, and Eser Kandogan. 2022. Machop: an
end-to-end generalized entity matching framework. In Proceedings of the Fifth
International Workshop on Exploiting Artificial Intelligence Techniques for Data
Management. 1–10.
[36] Yue Wang, Dan Qiao, Juntao Li, Jinxiong Chang, Qishen Zhang, Zhongyi Liu,
Guannan Zhang, and Min Zhang. 2023. Towards Better Hierarchical Text Classification with Data Generation. In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: ACL 2023. 7722–7739.
[37] Yuanmeng Yan, Rumei Li, Sirui Wang, Fuzheng Zhang, Wei Wu, and Weiran Xu.
2021. ConSERT: A Contrastive Framework for Self-Supervised Sentence Representation Transfer. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural
Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers). 5065–5075.
[38] Shunyu Zhang, Yaobo Liang, Ming Gong, Daxin Jiang, and Nan Duan. 2022. MultiView Document Representation Learning for Open-Domain Dense Retrieval. In
Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 5990–6000.
[39] Xuanhe Zhou, Guoliang Li, Chengliang Chai, and Jianhua Feng. 2021. A learned
query rewrite system using monte carlo tree search. Proceedings of the VLDB
Endowment 15, 1 (2021), 46–58.
[40] Yicheng Zou, Hongwei Liu, Tao Gui, Junzhe Wang, Qi Zhang, Meng Tang, Haixiang Li, and Daniell Wang. 2022. Divide and Conquer: Text Semantic Matching
with Disentangled Keywords and Intents. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022. 3622–3632.
[41] Simiao Zuo, Qingru Zhang, Chen Liang, Pengcheng He, Tuo Zhao, and Weizhu
Chen. 2022. MoEBERT: from BERT to Mixture-of-Experts via Importance-Guided
Adaptation. (2022).

