The Stepwise Deception: Simulating the Evolution from
True News to Fake News with LLM Agents
Yuhan Liu1 , Zirui Song2 , Juntian Zhang1 , Xiaoqing Zhang1 , Xiuying Chen2 * , Rui Yan1,3,4 *
1
Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence, Renmin University of China, 2 MBZUAI,
3
Engineering Research Center of Next-Generation Intelligent Search and Recommendation, MoE
4
School of Artifcial Intelligence, Wuhan University
yuhan.liu@ruc.edu.cn
Abstract

arXiv:2410.19064v2 [cs.SI] 28 May 2025

With the growing spread of misinformation
online, understanding how true news evolves
into fake news has become crucial for early detection and prevention. However, previous research has often assumed fake news inherently
exists rather than exploring its gradual formation. To address this gap, we propose FUSE
(Fake news evolUtion Simulation framEwork),
a novel Large Language Model (LLM)-based
simulation approach explicitly focusing on fake
news evolution from real news. Our framework model a social network with four distinct
types of LLM agents commonly observed in
daily interactions: spreaders who propagate
information, commentators who provide interpretations, verifiers who fact-check, and bystanders who observe passively to simulate
realistic daily interactions that progressively
distort true news. To quantify these gradual distortions, we develop FUSE-EVAL, a comprehensive evaluation framework measuring truth
deviation along multiple linguistic and semantic dimensions. Results show that FUSE effectively captures fake news evolution patterns
and accurately reproduces known fake news,
aligning closely with human evaluations. Experiments demonstrate that FUSE accurately reproduces known fake news evolution scenarios,
aligns closely with human judgment, and highlights the importance of timely intervention at
early stages. Our framework is extensible, enabling future research on broader scenarios of
fake news.

1

Introduction

The rapid spread of fake news has become a significant global concern (Lazer et al., 2018a; Olan et al.,
2022). Prior research predominantly addresses fake
news detection or simulates the spread of misinformation after its initial appearance (Garimella et al.,
2017; Wang et al., 2019). For instance, Piqueira
*

Corresponding authors.

et al. (2020) categorized individuals into four types
and used mathematical models to simulate the
spread of fake news, as depicted in Figure 1(a).
On a micro-level, Jalili and Perc (2017) defined numerical conditions for opinion change to study fake
news dissemination, as shown in Figure 1(b). However, these models typically assume fake news as
inherently existing entities within social networks,
ignoring how misinformation originates or evolves
over time.
In contrast, fake news may originate from true
news that becomes distorted or misinterpreted over
time, eventually evolving into fake news (Guo
et al., 2021; Shen et al., 2024) as illustrated in
Figure 1(c). This evolutionary process is critically
underexplored despite its significance for effective
early interventions. Recognizing this gap, our work
explicitly adopts the definition of fake news from
prior influential research (Lazer et al., 2018b), focusing specifically on scenarios where factual information incrementally transforms into misinformation during its dissemination (Figure 1(c)). We
define this transitional content as partially evolved
fake news, characterized by a mix of accurate and
distorted elements.
Specifically, we propose the Fake news evolUtion Simulation framEwork (FUSE), the first comprehensive approach employing LLM agents to
simulate how real news progressively evolves into
fake news within different social network structures (e.g., high-clustering, scale-free, and random
networks). The simulation consists of four distinct agent roles commonly found in real-world
interactions: spreaders, who disseminate information; commentators, who interpret content; verifiers, who assess factual accuracy; and bystanders,
who observe without active participation. Each
agent engages daily, exchanging beliefs, reevaluating information, and contributing to incremental
content distortions. Our agents incorporate hierarchical memory structures, combining short-term

(a)

(b)

Macro-level observation

Population

Spreader
Verifier
Commentator
Bystander

(c)

Fake news dissemination

Scientists develop
drought-resistant
wheat, but it poses a
risk to human health.

Susceptible people
Infected people
spread
Drought-resistant
wheat developed,
but only available
in developed
countries.

Fake news naturally
exist in most
existing research!

True news
Partially evolved fake news
Evolved fake news
Scientists
develop
droughtresistant wheat.

Scientists create
droughtresistant wheat,
claiming it will
solve world
hunger by next
year.

Miracle
wheat can
grow in any
environment.

Scientists develop droughtresistant wheat, reducing
water usage in agriculture.

Time

Figure 1: (a) Macro-level observation of population dynamics based on the mathematical model, categorizing
individuals into four types and showing their quantity changes over time. (b) The micro-level conventional fake
news dissemination model assumes that fake news inherently exists. (c) Micro-level evolution of fake news, where
true news gradually evolves into fake news during network propagation with content alterations at various stages.

interactions and long-term knowledge, allowing realistic reflective reasoning processes and dynamic
content adaptation.
Given the absence of prior work on languagebased evaluation of fake news evolution, we introduce FUSE-EVAL, a novel multidimensional evaluation framework that quantifies the deviation of
evolved news from its original form across multiple
dimensions, including Sentiment Shift (SS), New
Information Introduced (NII), Certainty Shift (CS),
STylistic Shift (STS), Temporal Shift(TS), and Perspective Deviation (PD). Our comprehensive experiments validate FUSE’s strong alignment with
real-world observations from prior research. The
results reveal three key findings: (1) news exhibits
clear accumulation distortion effects, where content progressively deviates from its original form
during spread (de Paula et al., 2024); (2) true news
evolution to fake news occurs more rapidly in highclustering networks than in scale-free or random
networks (Trpevski et al., 2010); (3) political news
shows significantly faster evolution rates compared
to other topics (terrorism, natural disasters, science,
and finance) (Lazer et al., 2018b).
To construct a responsible online environment,
our research reveals the importance of strategic interventions during the early stages of fake news
evolution. Rather than waiting until fake news
has widely spread, we introduce an official agent
that intervenes when information deviation reaches
critical thresholds, issuing authoritative statements
with reliable sources to counteract misinformation
spread. This early intervention approach demonstrates the effectiveness of timely, authoritative responses in misinformation governance.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows:
• Versatile Framework. We propose FUSE, an

LLM-based simulation framework to investigate
how true news gradually evolves into fake news,
and validate through experiments that our framework successfully reproduces real-world phenomena by considering different types of agents and
various social network structures.
• Comprehensive Evaluation. We introduce
FUSE-EVAL, a novel multidimensional framework
to measure the deviation from true news during
news evolution.
• Practical Insights. We propose and evaluate
multiple intervention strategies aimed at mitigating
the spread of fake news during its evolution.

2

Related Work

Fake News Evolution Recent research into fake
news evolution has focused on how misinformation spreads and transforms over time. Zhang et al.
(2013) found that rumors evolve as they are repeatedly modified, becoming shorter and more shareable, while Guo et al. (2021) empirically tracked
fake news evolution, noting how sentiment and text
similarity change as truth transitions into misinformation. Xia et al. (2020) proposed a sentiment analysis pipeline to track public opinion shifts in fake
news by detecting sarcasm. Other studies have emphasized structural and behavioral aspects of fake
news propagation. Zhao et al. (2024) proposed a
dynamic method that captures temporal changes in
rumor propagation, revealing how rumor patterns
evolve. Wang et al. (2021) demonstrated slight
news content changes during the COVID-19 pandemic, while Li et al. (2016) examined how user
behaviors, particularly the role of verified accounts,
influence the evolution of rumors. FPS (Liu et al.,
2024) and TED (Liu et al., 2025) uses a multi-agent
system to study the propagation and detection of

fake news.
However, there has not been a detailed and comprehensive study on how true news evolves into
fake news, with only some superficial linguistic
analyses (Zhang et al., 2013; Guo et al., 2021).
LLMs as Agents Agent-based modeling simulates complex systems through individual agents’
interactions in dynamic environments (Macal and
North, 2005). The integration of LLMs has enhanced these simulations by enabling natural language processing capabilities (Zhang et al., 2025;
Chen et al., 2023b,a) and human-like intelligence
in planning and decision-making (Xi et al., 2023).
This has led to widespread adoption across various
domains (Li et al., 2023; Park et al., 2023; Liu et al.,
2025; Jin et al., 2025), establishing LLM agents
as a new paradigm for human-level intelligence
simulation. In more specific applications, LLM
agents have been employed to simulate social media dynamics. For instance, Törnberg et al. (2023)
used them to investigate social media algorithms
and provide insights into real-world phenomena,
while Park et al. (2022) demonstrated their ability
to generate human-like social media content. Our
work extends this approach by being one of the
first to apply LLM agents in simulating fake news
evolution.

3

Methodology

3.1

Problem Formulation

We simulate the gradual evolution of true news into
fake news using LLMs as agents within a social network, consistent with the definition of fake news
provided by prior research (Lazer et al., 2018b;
Guo et al., 2021). The simulation consists of N
agents A = (a1 , . . . , aN ), each endowed with a
unique persona defining their Behavior role, personality traits, and demographic information.
At time t = 0, true news S0 is introduced into
the network. The agents are connected according to
a predefined social network structure G = (A, E),
which may represent high-clustering, scale-free, or
random networks to reflect real-world dynamics.
On each day t = 1, 2, . . . , T , agents interact with
their neighbors Ni , exchanging information and
opinions based on their personas and prior knowledge. After interactions, agents process and reintroduce the news content based on their updated
beliefs. The evolution of the news content for agent
ai with a personal profile Pi at time t, denoted as

Sit , is defined by:
Sit = f (Sit−1 , {Sjt−1 |aj ∈ Ni }, Pi ),

(1)

where f (·) represents the agent’s information processing function.
Through this simulation, we analyze how the
true news S0 transforms over time due to agents’
interactions and personal biases, examining the
impact of agent types, network structures, and individual traits on the evolution of fake news.
3.2

Our Simulation Framework

As depicted in Figure 2, our FUSE framework
consists of two core components: the Propagation Role-Aware agents (PRA) and the News Evolution Simulator (NES). The PRA module empowers agents with role-based decision-making
capabilities, while the NES establishes the interaction environment, simulating the social network through which news propagates and evolves.
Within the PRA module, each agent is powered
by an LLM and characterized by a specific role
type and personal attributes, which govern their
information processing, interaction patterns, and
opinion updates. The NES facilitates daily interactions through a predefined social network structure,
G = (A, E), simulating various network types to
reflect different social dynamics.
During each simulation day, agents engage with
their network neighbors, exchanging news content and opinions shaped by their roles and attributes. When news content deviates beyond a
set threshold, intervention mechanisms—such as
official announcements—are triggered to provide
credible information and correct potential misinformation. The simulation advances daily with updated agent states, tracking the evolution of news
content through the network.
3.3

Propagation Role-Aware Agent

The PRA is designed to simulate individual human
behaviors in news evolution by equipping agents
with specific roles and personal attributes, aiming
to mirror the diversity and complexity of human
interactions in social networks.
3.3.1 Personal Information
According to Sun et al. (2023), the roles in
fake news propagation can be classified into four
types: spreaders, who propagate information;
commentators, who provide opinions and interpretations; verifiers, who check the accuracy of

Propagation Role-aware Agent
Personal Information
-

Name
Age
Traits
Education Level

Short-term
memory:
Long-term
memory

-

Spreader
Commentator
Verifier
Bystander

Evolved fake news

True news

Partially evolved fake news

Feedback
Loop

…

True News

Role Identity :

News Evolution Simulator

Hierarchical Memory

Opinion Decision
-Memory Fusion Reasoning

-Update opinion

𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 = 0

𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 =

𝑛
2

𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 = 𝑛

Figure 2: Our FUSE framework simulates news evolution by equipping each agent with role-based decision-making
capabilities. Propagation Role-aware agents (PRA) process true news through interactions within the news evolution
simulator (NES), where their role identities shape how they engage with the news.

information; and bystanders, who passively observe without engaging. However, they failed
to model this in their numerical simulation. We
follow this setup but enhance it by equipping
each agent ai with a textual role description ri ∈
{spreader, commentator, verifier, bystander}. Additionally, agents possess a personal profile Pi that
includes demographic attributes (name, age, gender, and education level) and personal traits based
on the Big Five model (Barrick and Mount, 1991),
which influence their information processing behaviors.
3.3.2

Role-Specific Behaviors

At each time step ti , agent ai holds a version of the
news content Sit . When interacting with neighboring agents Ni as defined by the network G, agent ai
receives news content {Sjt−1 |aj ∈ Ni }. The agent
then reintroduces news based on their role and persona through a role-specific update function:
frole = fri (Sit−1 , {Sjt−1 |aj ∈ Ni }, Pi ).

(2)

For different roles in our model, spreaders may
combine and amplify sensational aspects of the
news, commentators may add personal opinions,
verifiers may check news before sharing, and bystanders may retain their previous news content
unless significantly influenced (Sun et al., 2023).

and long-term memory (LTM) MiL for accumulated knowledge. After interactions, agents reflect
and update the news through a memory function:
MiL,t = g(fL (MiL,t−1 ), fS (MiS,t )),

where g(·) integrates new information into LTM,
enabling agents to exhibit dynamic behaviors such
as gradually changing their opinion on a topic or
reinforcing existing opinions.
3.3.4

Memory and Reflection

In our simulation, agents engage with their neighbors daily, leading to updated versions of the news.
Given the volume of interactions, we implement
a hierarchical memory system comprising shortterm memory (STM) MiS for recent interactions

Decision-Making Process

In our FUSE framework, each agent’s opinion
evolves through a reasoning process influenced by
their role, persona, and interactions. Agents reflect on their news content after daily interactions
and memory updates, leading to gradual opinion
changes. The decision-making process for agent ai
at time t is modeled as:
Sit = fdm (Sit−1 , mL,t−1
, ri , Pi ).
i

(4)

This function captures how agents integrate new
information with their existing opinions, considering their role in the decision-making process. For
example, the reasoning of spreaders may lead to
greater changes in Sit , commentators add subjective nuances, verifiers aim to correct inaccuracies,
and bystanders typically make minimal changes.
3.4

3.3.3

(3)

News Evolution Simulator

The News Evolution Simulator (NES) provides
the environment where news content evolves over
time through agent interactions within a social network structure G = (A, E). This module enables
studying how true news transforms into fake news
through agent behaviors and social interactions.

NES models various network topologies to reflect different social dynamics: random networks
with randomly formed edges between agents ai ∈
A, simulating loosely connected environments;
scale-free networks with hub agents acting as
“super-spreaders”; and high-clustering networks
forming tightly-knit communities that mirror realworld social circles (Nekovee et al., 2007; Moreno
et al., 2004). As outlined in Appendix I, the network structure G determines daily agent interactions, influencing news content’s evolution patterns.
The overall algorithm is presented in Appendix A.
3.4.1

Intervention Mechanisms

A key feature of NES is its ability to simulate interventions to counter fake news evolution. When
the deviation between current news content Sit and
original news S0 exceeds a predefined threshold,
an official agent is introduced to provide verified
information and correct misinformation.
The intervention process starts with continuously
monitoring the deviation between each agent’s
news content and the original news. Once the deviation exceeds a critical threshold, the official agent
is triggered to take action. This agent issues official
announcements based on reliable sources, targeting agents most likely to propagate or exacerbate
misinformation.
The prompts for all functions mentioned in § 3
can be found in Appendix B.

4

FUSE-EVAL: News Evolution Analysis

To systematically measure how true news evolves
into fake news within our simulation, we propose a comprehensive evaluation framework named
FUSE-EVAL. This framework consists of two sets
of metrics: Content Deviation Metrics and Statistical Deviation Metrics, which together provide a
detailed understanding of how fake news evolves
within the simulated environment.
4.1

Content Deviation Metrics

The Content Deviation Metrics assess the deviation
of the news content across multiple dimensions by
quantifying changes in specific aspects of the news.
FUSE-EVAL evaluates the news content based on
six core dimensions:
(1) Sentiment Shift (SS) measures the change in
emotional tone between the original news content
and its evolved version (Lu et al., 2022; Ma et al.,
2021). Sentiment plays a crucial role in how infor-

mation is perceived and shared, with shifts indicating potential bias or emotional manipulation.
(2) New Information Introduced (NII) assesses
the extent to which additional information, not
present in the original news, has been incorporated (Wang et al., 2017). Introducing new facts or
claims can significantly alter the original message,
potentially leading to misinformation.
(3) Certainty Shift (CS) evaluates changes in the
level of confidence or assertiveness expressed in the
news content (Krafft et al., 2019; Kim and Yoon,
2022). Shifts from definitive to speculative language can influence the perceived credibility of
information.
(4) Stylistic Shift (STS) examines changes in writing style, tone, and linguistic features (Wu et al.,
2024). Alterations in style can affect readability
and audience engagement through formality and
sentence complexity changes.
(5) Temporal Shift (TS) measures changes related
to time references within the news content (Shen
et al., 2024; Mu et al., 2023). Modifying dates,
times, or event sequences can significantly impact
news interpretation.
(6) Paraphrasing Degree (PD) evaluates the extent to which the content has been rephrased from
the original text, which may obscure meaning or
introduce ambiguity.
We employ GPT-4o-mini to automate FUSEEVAL evaluation, scoring each dimension from 1
(minimal deviation) to 10 (significant deviation).
As shown in Figure 3 (a), FUSE-EVAL demonstrates cumulative deviations (Pröllochs and Feuerriegel, 2023) during fake news evolution, confirming its effectiveness. To evaluate the overall deviation, the Total Deviation (TD) for each agent at
each time step t is calculated as:
6

TDti =

1X t
Di,d ,
6

(5)

d=1

t is the score of dimension d for agent i at
where Di,d
time t. The detailed evaluation process is provided
in Appendix D.

4.2

Statistical Deviation Metrics

The Statistical Deviation Metrics, derived from Total Deviation (TD) scores, provide insights into
the overall patterns of news evolution within the
network. We analyze several key metrics:
• The ∆Deviation represents the difference in Average Deviation between the final and initial simu-

Days

Average

Average

Average

-22.3%

Days

-37.8%

Days

（b）

Average Deviation

（a）

Days

Figure 3: (a) The FUSE-EVAL scores show cumulative information deviations over time. (b) A Case of FUSE:
True news gradually evolves into partially false and eventually entirely fake news over time.

lation day, indicating overall deviation growth.
• The Average Deviation is the mean of TD across
all agents at each time step, showing the general
trend of news evolution within the network.
• The Deviation Variance measures the statistical variance of TD among agents, measuring how
uniformly content deviates across the network.
• The Final Deviation is the average TD at the
finaltime step t, representing the cumulative effect.
• The Maximum Deviation and Minimum Deviation refer to the highest and lowest average TD
observed, showing the extremes of news deviation.
• The Peak Deviation Time indicates the percentage of simulation time taken to reach Peak Deviation Rate, showing the speed of maximum deviation occurrence.
• The Half Deviation Time is the time step t0.5
when average TD reaches half of Max Deviation,
indicating the rate of significant deviation.
4.3

Implementation Details

Our framework uses GPT-4o-mini as the primary
LLM and the simulation comprises 40 agents. Additional implementation details, including agent
personality traits and programming environment,
are provided in Appendix C. At the same time, API
costs and compatibility with other models can be
found in Appendix G and Appendix H.

5

Validation of the FUSE Framework

In this section, we demonstrate FUSE’s effectiveness by validating its alignment with known fake
news propagation patterns and its ability to reproduce real-world fake news.
5.1

Alignment with Real-World Patterns

Topic Comparison We analyzed fake news evolution across five topics: politics, science, finance,
terrorism, and urban legends. As shown in Table 1 and Appendix F, political fake news exhibits
the fastest spread, with average deviation peaking within four days, followed by terrorism-related

content. Science and financial news evolve more
slowly, showing the lowest average deviation. Table 1 shows the final deviation for political news
is approximately 90% higher than that of science
news. These results indicate that political fake news
is more prone to rapid distortion and widespread belief, while science-related misinformation spreads
more cautiously, aligned with prior research (Lazer
et al., 2018a). We collected 120 pieces of true news
across five topics. All news is published after the
training cutoff date of GPT-4o-mini. The results
were consistent, and the dataset will be publicly
available.
Social Network Comparison We analyzed fake
news evolution across three network structures (random, scale-free, and high-clustering) using a terrorism topic. Table 1 shows that high-clustering
networks lead to the fastest and most extensive
fake news spread, with deviation peaking rapidly
and remaining high. This indicates that tightly
connected communities are particularly susceptible
to rapid belief distortion, aligning with the “echo
chamber” effect (Cinelli et al., 2021). Random networks show the slowest evolution of fake news with
lower variance, while scale-free networks exhibit
intermediate behavior. Peak deviation time is the
longest in random networks and shortest in highclustering networks, illustrating that clustering accelerates fake news evolution, consistent with prior
research (Lind et al., 2007; Trpevski et al., 2010).
Spread Type Comparison We analyzed three
spread types (normal, emotional, and super spread)
using a terrorism topic. Super spread, assigned to
high-degree nodes, leads to the highest misinformation level due to influencer amplification. Emotional spread, characterized by heightened emotional language, shows moderate effects, while
normal spread exhibits the slowest evolution. As
shown in Table 1, peak deviation time is shortest in super spread, followed by emotional spread,
demonstrating their accelerating effect on misinfor-

Comparison Factor

Setting

∆ Deviation↓

Average
Deviation↓

Deviation
Variance↓

Max
Deviation↓

Min
Deviation

Final
Deviation↓

Peak Deviation
Time ↑

Half ∆ Deviation
Time↑

Topic

Politics
Science

3.148
1.446

6.594
3.533

0.511
0.207

7.440
4.236

3.442
2.026

6.590
3.472

0.133
0.767

0.033
0.033

Network
Structure

Random
Scale-Free
High-Clustering

1.905
2.631
4.313

3.315
4.287
6.193

0.347
0.725
1.027

4.206
5.652
7.030

1.892
1.492
2.348

4.206
4.955
6.661

1.000
0.767
0.500

0.233
0.167
0.033

Spread Type

Normal Spread
Emotional Spread
Super Spread

1.176
1.688
2.920

3.536
4.182
4.434

0.606
0.456
0.672

4.705
5.105
5.613

1.398
2.008
2.054

3.524
4.303
5.067

0.800
0.333
0.700

0.133
0.067
0.100

Traits

Impressionable
Vigilant

3.088
1.945

4.998
4.081

0.956
0.446

6.428
5.021

2.262
2.485

5.677
4.593

0.667
0.400

0.133
0.133

Intervention

No Intervention
Intervention

3.208
1.384

5.546
4.207

1.247
0.476

7.340
5.302

1.841
1.841

6.383
4.559

0.767
0.200

0.167
0.067

Table 1: Comparative analysis of fake news evolution across different settings, including variations in topics, social
networks, spread traits, and intervention strategies. ↑ or ↓ arrows represent better control of fake news evolution.
Bold numbers indicate statistically significant improvements over baseline models (t-test with p-value<0.01).

mation evolution, aligned with prior research (Sun
et al., 2023).

Personality Traits Comparison Using a terrorism topic, we compared the impact of personality
traits on fake news evolution. Based on the Big Five
personality traits (Barrick and Mount, 1991), we
compared agents with high agreeableness and neuroticism (Impressionable) versus low levels (Vigilant). Table 1 shows that Impressionable agents are
more prone to accepting and spreading misinformation. In contrast, Vigilant agents maintain more
stable beliefs, aligning with previous studies on personality influence in fake news spread (Mirzabeigi
et al., 2023).

5.2

Alignment with Real-World Fake News

We conducted experiments across various topics
and found that the fake news evolved by the FUSE
framework closely corresponds to real-world fake
news. As shown in Figure 3 (b), the news about
“Trump being attacked” starts as true, evolves into
partially false, and eventually becomes entirely
fake. As a commentator, the agent often adds
its own views, while its neighboring verifiers and
spreaders act according to their roles. Additionally,
our framework generates fake news such as “Trump
was not attacked. It’s a dramatic effect,” which is
also a widely circulated piece of fake news in the
real world 7 case 1 and 7 case 2. From a quantitative analysis perspective, for each topic, 73% of
fake news is recovered by our framework. The detailed case study and analysis results are provided
in the Appendix E.

6

Analysis and Discussion

6.1

Ablation Study

We chose a terrorism topic to demonstrate the effectiveness of our model’s components and conducted
two ablation studies to evaluate the contribution of
key components in the FUSE framework.
The Impact of Hierarchical Memory and
Propagation-Role. As shown in Figure 4 (a), the
complete FUSE framework demonstrates apparent
deviation accumulation, indicating its effectiveness
in simulating fake news evolution. After removing hierarchical memory, the deviation significantly
drops, with a 39.8% reduction throughout the simulation, indicating the simulation fails (Pröllochs
and Feuerriegel, 2023). This highlights memory’s
crucial role in capturing persistent belief distortion through short-term and long-term information
processing. Similarly, removing propagation roles
leads to further deviation decrease, emphasizing
how distinct agent roles (spreader, commentator,
verifier, and bystander) shape information evolution. Without these roles, the agents behave more
uniformly, and the accumulation effect of deviation
disappears, meaning that the news does not evolve.
The Impact of Propagation Role Types. Following our first ablation study showing that removing propagation roles leads to simulation failure,
we conducted a detailed analysis of different agent
roles’ impact on fake news evolution. As shown in
Figure 4 (b), removing commentators caused the
most significant drop in average deviation, confirming their crucial role in false news spread through
opinion addition and interpretation. Removing
spreaders had a relatively minimal impact as they

（c）
Average Deviation

-39.8%

（b）

Average Deviation

Average Deviation

（a）

Days

Average Deviation

（a）

-31.8%
-22.3%
-37.8%

Days

Days

Figure 4: (a) Ablation study showing the effectiveness of hierarchical memory and propagation roles. (b) Impact of
removing different agent types on fake news evolution. (c) Effectiveness of early intervention, showing an apparent
（b）
reduction in deviation
over time compared to the no-intervention condition.

lack opinion-adding capabilities, though they still
contribute to information dissemination.
Removing verifiers increased overall deviation,
demonstrating their important role in maintaining
information accuracy through fact-checking. Without
Days verifiers, the system became more susceptible to misinformation spread. Bystander removal
showed the least effect, consistent with their passive observational role in the network.
These findings, combined with our previous ablation results on hierarchical memory and propagation roles, validate FUSE’s effectiveness and
demonstrate how different components contribute
to simulating fake news evolution.
6.2

Fake News Intervention Strategy

Based on previous results, we implemented interventions through an official agent at high-degree
nodes. As shown in Table 1 and Figure 4 (c),
when fake news evolution peaked on the sixth day,
our first intervention reduced deviation by 37.8%
compared to no-intervention. Although this effect
gradually weakened, with the gap narrowing to
22.3% by day 12 as agents continued to interact
and potentially revert to previous beliefs, a second
intervention on day 16 achieved a 31.8% reduction in deviation. The intervention strategy demonstrated several significant improvements over the
no-intervention condition: the final deviation decreased by 28.6%, the deviation variance reduced
by 61.8%, and the peak deviation occurred 0.56
time units earlier. Throughout the simulation, the
intervention strategy consistently maintained lower
average deviation levels. These results emphasize
that effective fake news mitigation requires both
early and regular interventions to combat the continuous evolution of fake news.

6.3
（a）

Factors in Fake News Evolution
（b）

Figure 5: (a) The contribution percentages of factors in
FUSE-EVAL to fake news evolution. (b) Comparison
of the contributions of these factors across different
topics, with Politics and Terrorism showing balanced
contributions, while Science relies more on NII and less
on TS and STS.

The analysis of experimental results and charts
indicates varying contributions of different factors
to fake news evolution. Figure 5 (a) shows that
PD contributes the most (22.3%), suggesting that
altering reporting angles or distorting original information is the key driver of fake news evolution.
NII follows with 18%, highlighting its significant
role in this process. SS an STS contribute 17.2%
and 17.5%, respectively, while TS has the most negligible impact at 11%. Figure 5 (b) reveals topicspecific patterns. Political and terrorism-related
fake news evolves across multiple dimensions, especially new information, perspective, and sentiment shifts. In contrast, science-related fake news
is driven mainly by new information, with less
influence from temporal or style shifts. Urban legends and finance topics rely heavily on perspective
shifts and new information. In summary, PD and
NII are the main drivers of fake news evolution,
with time-related changes having the least impact.
Understanding these patterns can help develope
targeted strategies to detect and mitigate fake news.

7

Conclusion

We presented FUSE, a framework that simulates
the evolution of true news into fake news using
LLM-based agents. Through our FUSE-EVAL
framework, which measures content deviation
across six dimensions, we analyzed fake news evolution patterns in social networks. Our experiments
validated several established theories, including the
accelerated spread of political fake news, effects
of network clustering, impacts of super spreaders
and emotional content, and the role of personality traits in fake news susceptibility. Using LLMs
for automated evaluation enables scalable analysis,
contributing to understand the fake news dynamics.

Limitations
Despite the advancements presented by FUSE, our
study faces three primary limitations:
Data Availability: Currently, there is a lack of
comprehensive datasets that capture the dynamic
process of fake news evolving from true information. Most existing datasets focus on static
instances of misinformation or their immediate
spread, which restricts our ability to fully validate
FUSE across diverse real-world scenarios.
Complex Social Factors: Our current framework
focuses on key social dynamics and individual personality traits in fake news evolution, without explicitly modeling broader factors such as political
agendas, ideological bias, or crisis-driven contexts.
These complex social factors can influence how
true news is distorted in real-world settings. Nevertheless, the modular design of FUSE allows future
extensions to incorporate such context for more
comprehensive simulations.
Evaluation Methodology: Our evaluation framework, FUSE-EVAL, relies on specific dimensions
such as Sentiment Shift and New Information Introduced to measure deviations in news content.
However, these metrics may not cover all aspects
of fake news evolution, potentially missing subtle
nuances in misinformation dynamics. Additionally,
the dependence on LLMs for simulation and evaluation may introduce inherent biases, affecting the
accuracy of our assessments.

References
Murray R Barrick and Michael K Mount. 1991. The big
five personality dimensions and job performance: a
meta-analysis. Personnel Psychology, 44(1):1–26.

Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Xin Cheng,
Qiang Yang, Qishen Zhang, Xin Gao, and Xiangliang
Zhang. 2023a. A topic-aware summarization framework with different modal side information. In SIGIR ’23: Proceedings of the 46th International ACM
SIGIR Conference on Research and Development
in Information Retrieval, page 10, Taipei, Taiwan.
ACM.
Xiuying Chen, Guodong Long, Chongyang Tao,
Mingzhe Li, Xin Gao, Chengqi Zhang, and Xiangliang Zhang. 2023b. Improving the robustness of
summarization systems with dual augmentation. In
Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 6846–6857, Toronto, Canada.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Matteo Cinelli, Gianmarco De Francisci Morales,
Alessandro Galeazzi, Walter Quattrociocchi, and
Michele Starnini. 2021. The echo chamber effect on
social media. Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences, 118(9):e2023301118.
Patrick Oliveira de Paula, Alejandra Rada, and Catalina
Rúa. 2024. Application of information theory in
rumor spreading modeling considering polarization
in complex networks. Preprint, arXiv:2408.08891.
Kiran Garimella, Aristides Gionis, Nikos Parotsidis, and
Nikolaj Tatti. 2017. Balancing information exposure
in social networks. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 30.
Mingfei Guo, Xiuying Chen, Juntao Li, Dongyan Zhao,
and Rui Yan. 2021. How does truth evolve into fake
news? an empirical study of fake news evolution.
In Companion Proceedings of the Web Conference
2021, pages 407–411. ACM.
Mahdi Jalili and Matjaž Perc. 2017. Information cascades in complex networks. Journal of Complex
Networks, 5(5):665–693.
Song Jin, Juntian Zhang, Yuhan Liu, Xun Zhang, Yufei
Zhang, Guojun Yin, Fei Jiang, Wei Lin, and Rui Yan.
2025. Beyond static testbeds: An interaction-centric
agent simulation platform for dynamic recommender
systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.16429.
Alex Kim and Sangwon Yoon. 2022. Detecting rumor
veracity with only textual information by doublechannel structure. In Proceedings of the 10th International Workshop on SocialNLP, pages 1–11. NAACL.
Peter M Krafft, Kate Starbird, and Emma S Spiro. 2019.
Keeping rumors in proportion: managing uncertainty
in rumor systems. In Proceedings of the 2019 CHI
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems,
pages 1–11. ACM.
David M. J. Lazer, Matthew A. Baum, Yochai Benkler, Adam J. Berinsky, Kelly M. Greenhill, Filippo Menczer, Miriam J. Metzger, Brendan Nyhan,
Gordon Pennycook, David M. Rothschild, Michael
Schudson, Steven A. Sloman, Cass Robert Sunstein,

Emily A. Thorson, Duncan J. Watts, and Jonathan
Zittrain. 2018a. The science of fake news. Science,
359:1094 – 1096.
David MJ Lazer, Matthew A Baum, Yochai Benkler, Adam J Berinsky, Kelly M Greenhill, Filippo
Menczer, Miriam J Metzger, Brendan Nyhan, Gordon
Pennycook, David Rothschild, et al. 2018b. The science of fake news. Science, 359(6380):1094–1096.
Quanzhi Li, Xiaomo Liu, Rui Fang, Armineh Nourbakhsh, and Sameena Shah. 2016. User behaviors
in newsworthy rumors: A case study of twitter. In
Proceedings of the 10th International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media (ICWSM), volume 10,
pages 627–630. AAAI Press.
Siyu Li, Jin Yang, and Kui Zhao. 2023. Are you in
a masquerade? exploring the behavior and impact
of large language model driven social bots in online
social networks. Preprint, arXiv:2307.10337.
Pedro G Lind, Luciano R Da Silva, José S Andrade Jr,
and Hans J Herrmann. 2007. Spreading gossip in social networks. Physical Review E—Statistical, Nonlinear, and Soft Matter Physics, 76(3):036117.
Yuhan Liu, Xiuying Chen, Xiaoqing Zhang, Xing Gao,
Ji Zhang, and Rui Yan. 2024. From skepticism to
acceptance: simulating the attitude dynamics toward
fake news. In Proceedings of the Thirty-Third International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
pages 7886–7894.
Yuhan Liu, Yuxuan Liu, Xiaoqing Zhang, Xiuying
Chen, and Rui Yan. 2025. The truth becomes clearer
through debate! multi-agent systems with large language models unmask fake news. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.08532.
Menglong Lu, Zhen Huang, Binyang Li, Yunxiang
Zhao, Zheng Qin, and DongSheng Li. 2022. Sifter:
A framework for robust rumor detection. IEEE/ACM
Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 30:429–442.
Jing Ma, Jun Li, Wei Gao, Yang Yang, and Kam-Fai
Wong. 2021. Improving rumor detection by promoting information campaigns with transformer-based
generative adversarial learning. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering.
Charles M Macal and Michael J North. 2005. Tutorial
on agent-based modeling and simulation. In Proceedings of the 2005 Winter Simulation Conference,
pages 14–25. IEEE.
Jayawant N Mandrekar. 2011. Measures of interrater
agreement. Journal of Thoracic Oncology, 6(1):6–7.
Mahdieh Mirzabeigi, Mahsa Torabi, and Tahereh
Jowkar. 2023. The role of personality traits and the
ability to detect fake news in predicting information
avoidance during the covid-19 pandemic. Library Hi
Tech, 41(2):524–541.

Yamir Moreno, Maziar Nekovee, and Amalio F Pacheco.
2004. Dynamics of rumor spreading in complex
networks. Physical Review E—Statistical, Nonlinear,
and Soft Matter Physics, 69(6):066130.
Yida Mu, Kalina Bontcheva, and Nikolaos Aletras. 2023.
It’s about time: Rethinking evaluation on rumor detection benchmarks using chronological splits. In
Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EACL 2023, pages 736–743. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Maziar Nekovee, Yamir Moreno, Ginestra Bianconi,
and Matteo Marsili. 2007. Theory of rumour spreading in complex social networks. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 374(1):457–470.
Femi Olan, Uchitha Jayawickrama, Emmanuel Ogiemwonyi Arakpogun, Jana Suklan, and Shaofeng Liu.
2022. Fake news on social media: the impact on
society. Information Systems Frontiers, pages 1 – 16.
Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bernstein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra
of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software
and Technology, pages 1–22. ACM.
Joon Sung Park, Lindsay Popowski, Carrie Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bernstein. 2022. Social simulacra: Creating populated
prototypes for social computing systems. In Proceedings of the 35th Annual ACM Symposium on
User Interface Software and Technology, pages 1–18.
ACM.
José Roberto Castilho Piqueira, Mauro Zilbovicius, and
Cristiane Mileo Batistela. 2020. Daley–kendal models in fake-news scenario. Physica A: Statistical
Mechanics and its Applications, 548:123406.
Nicolas Pröllochs and Stefan Feuerriegel. 2023. Mechanisms of true and false rumor sharing in social media:
collective intelligence or herd behavior? Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction,
7(CSCW2):1–38.
Chao Shen, Zhenyu Song, Pengyu He, Limin Liu, and
Zhenyu Xiong. 2024. Online rumors during the
covid-19 pandemic: co-evolution of themes and emotions. Frontiers in Public Health, 12:1375731.
Ling Sun, Yuan Rao, Lianwei Wu, Xiangbo Zhang,
Yuqian Lan, and Ambreen Nazir. 2023. Fighting
false information from propagation process: A survey. ACM Computing Surveys, 55(10):1–38.
Petter Törnberg, Diliara Valeeva, Justus Uitermark, and
Christopher Bail. 2023. Simulating social media
using large language models to evaluate alternative
news feed algorithms. Preprint, arXiv:2310.05984.
Daniel Trpevski, Wallace KS Tang, and Ljupco Kocarev.
2010. Model for rumor spreading over networks.
Physical Review E—Statistical, Nonlinear, and Soft
Matter Physics, 81(5):056102.

Andrea W Wang, Jo-Yu Lan, Chihhao Yu, and MingHung Wang. 2021. The evolution of rumors
on a closed platform during covid-19. Preprint,
arXiv:2104.13816.
Chao Wang, Zong Xuan Tan, Ye Ye, Lu Wang,
Kang Hao Cheong, and Neng-gang Xie. 2017. A
rumor spreading model based on information entropy.
Scientific Reports, 7(1):9615.
Xinyan Wang, Xiaoming Wang, Fei Hao, Geyong Min,
and Liang Wang. 2019. Efficient coupling diffusion
of positive and negative information in online social
networks. IEEE Transactions on Network and Service Management, 16(3):1226–1239.
Jiaying Wu, Jiafeng Guo, and Bryan Hooi. 2024. Fake
news in sheep’s clothing: Robust fake news detection
against llm-empowered style attacks. In Proceedings
of the 30th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pages 3367–3378.
ACM.
Zhiheng Xi, Wenxiang Chen, Xin Guo, Wei He, Yiwen
Ding, Boyang Hong, Ming Zhang, Junzhe Wang,
Senjie Jin, Enyu Zhou, Rui Zheng, Xiaoran Fan,
Xiao Wang, Limao Xiong, Yuhao Zhou, Weiran
Wang, Changhao Jiang, Yicheng Zou, Xiangyang
Liu, Zhangyue Yin, Shihan Dou, Rongxiang Weng,
Wensen Cheng, Qi Zhang, Wenjuan Qin, Yongyan
Zheng, Xipeng Qiu, Xuanjing Huang, and Tao Gui.
2023. The rise and potential of large language model
based agents: A survey. Preprint, arXiv:2309.07864.
Rui Xia, Kaizhou Xuan, and Jianfei Yu. 2020. A stateindependent and time-evolving network for early rumor detection in social media. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 9042–9051.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Juntian Zhang, Yuhan Liu, Wei Liu, Jian Luan, Rui Yan,
et al. 2025. Weaving context across images: Improving vision-language models through focus-centric
visual chains. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.20199.
Yichao Zhang, Shi Zhou, Zhongzhi Zhang, Jihong Guan,
and Shuigeng Zhou. 2013. Rumor evolution in social
networks. Physical Review E—Statistical, Nonlinear,
and Soft Matter Physics, 87(3):032133.
Shouhao Zhao, Shujuan Ji, Jiandong Lv, and Xianwen
Fang. 2024. Propagation tree says: Dynamic evolution characteristics learning approach for rumor
detection. International Journal of Machine Learning and Cybernetics, pages 1–17.

A

The Overall Algorithm

Algorithm 1 FUSE Framework for Fake News
Evolution
1: Input: Number of agents N , total simulation
days T , social network structure G = (A, E),
original news content S0
2: Output: Final news content SiT and final memory states MiL,T for each agent ai
3: Initialize propagation role-aware agents:
4: for each agent ai in 1 to N do
5:
Assign a propagation role ri and persona
profile Pi
6:
Set initial news content Si0 = S0
Define short-term memory MiS,0 and long7:
term memory MiL,0
8: end for
9: Simulate daily news evolution:
10: for each day t in 1 to T do
11:
for each agent ai do
12:
Select neighbors Ni based on the network
structure G
13:
Receive news content {Sjt−1 |aj ∈ Ni }
14:

15:

MiS,t

Update short-term memory
for
agent ai with details from the day’s interactions
Based on MiS,t , update long-term memory MiL,t for agent ai using Equation (3)

Agent ai reintroduce news content Sit using Equation (4)
17:
end for
18: end for
19: return Final news content SiT and long-term
memory MiL,T for each agent ai

fspr : share information quickly without verifying its accuracy.
fcom : modifies or adds their views before sharing news.
fver : performs some verification before spreading news.
fbys : consume news without participating in its
dissemination.
2. The prompt for Short-Term Memory function
fS is as:
Summarize the opinions you have heard in a
few sentences, including their own perspective
on the news.
3. The prompt for Long-term memory function
fL is as:
Review the previous long-term memory and today’s short-term summary. Please update the
long-term memory by integrating today’s summary, ensuring continuity and incorporating any
new insights.
4. The prompt for the reasoning function is as:
As a [role], you combine your [previous personal opinion] with the new information stored
in your [long memory]. You process this information in the following manner: [role behavior],
and then reintroduce the [news].

16:

B

Prompt Set

Here, we present a detailed description of the
prompts employed in our FUSE framework to
model the dynamics of fake news evolution.
1. The prompt for the role-specific reintroduction function fri is as:

5.The prompt for “Official Statement” is as:
According to the current investigation, That
[news] is true. We have noticed that some social media platforms and certain media outlets
are spreading false information, claiming that
[news] is fake. We firmly state that such claims
are baseless. The government is committed to
transparency and will provide timely updates on
the investigation. We urge the public to seek accurate information from official channels, and
necessary actions will be taken against those
who intentionally spread false information.

C

Implementation Details

Our simulation framework was developed using
Python scripts, leveraging various libraries to
model the agents and their environment effectively.

The LLM used is gpt-4o-mini, accessed via OpenAI API calls. When creating the network structure, we used the Python library networkx to construct different social network structures. The simulation includes 40 agents, whose traits were based
on the Big Five personality dimensions commonly
used in psychology (Barrick and Mount, 1991).
Each agent was assigned scores on these traits to
introduce variability in behaviors and interactions
within the simulation. For further details, please
refer to our code at https://anonymous.4open.
science/r/FUSE-7022/README.md.

D

Human Evaluation

To efficiently evaluate the deviation of news content
across the multiple dimensions defined in FUSEEVAL, we employ large language models (LLMs)
to automate the assessment process. This approach
provides consistent and scalable evaluations, reducing the reliance on time-consuming human evaluation. We utilize two versions of OpenAI’s language models: gpt-3.5-turbo and GPT-4. For
each agent’s news content at various time steps, we
prompt the LLMs to evaluate the six FUSE-EVAL
dimensions by comparing the evolved content with
the original news article,which is as follows:
• Sentiment Shift (SS)
• New Information Introduced (NII)
• Certainty Shift (CS)
• Stylistic Shift (STS)
• Temporal Shift (TS)
• Perspective Deviation (PD)
The models assign scores from 1 to 10 for each
dimension based on predefined evaluation criteria.
To validate the effectiveness of using LLMs for
this task, we conducted a benchmarking study by
comparing LLM-generated evaluations with those
from human judges. Three annotators (Ph.D. students in Computer Science and Technology and
journalism studies) were recruited to independently
assess a representative sample of 50 news items using the same scoring guidelines. We calculate the
Pearson correlation coefficients between the scores
assigned by the LLMs and the human evaluators for
each dimension. The results, presented in Table 2,
show that GPT-4o-mini achieves strong alignment

with human evaluations across all dimensions, under a relatively high level of inter-annotator agreement (Fleiss’ κ = 0.79) (Mandrekar, 2011), surpassing the performance of gpt-3.5-turbo.
The prompt used is as follows:
I have an original news and multiple related
news. I want to evaluate how much these news
deviate from the original news based on the
following criteria:
1. Sentiment Shift: How does the sentiment of
the news compare to the original news? Is the
tone more positive, negative, or neutral compared to the original?
2. Introduction of New Information: Does the
news introduce additional information not in the
original news, such as political conspiracy or
speculation? Evaluate how much of the article
is focused on these new details.
3. Certainty Shift: How does the news language
change in terms of certainty? Does it use more
ambiguous terms like “possibly” or “allegedly”
compared to the original news, or does it present
the information with more certainty?
4. Stylistic Shift: How does the writing style
compare to the original? Has the news moved
from neutral reporting to a more exaggerated or
dramatic tone?
5. Temporal Shift: Does the news shift focus
from the specific event mentioned in the original news to broader or unrelated timeframes,
such as mentioning legal battles or long-term
political issues?
6. Perspective Deviation: Does the article introduce subjective opinions or perspectives that
deviate from the objective reporting in the original news? For instance, questioning the truth of
the event or speculating on hidden motives.
Task: Please evaluate the following news based
on each criterion and provide a score from 0
to 10, where 0 means the article is completely
aligned with the original news, and 10 means it
has fully deviated.
Original News:[original news] News articles to
Evaluate:[Evolved News]
Please provide the results in the following format: [output format]
The high correlation coefficients indicate that
GPT-4o-mini closely aligns with human evaluations, making it a reliable tool for assessing news
deviation in our simulation. We achieve a scal-

Dimension

GPT-3.5-turbo

GPT-4o-mini

Sentiment Shift (SS)
New Information Introduced (NII)
Certainty Shift (CS)
Stylistic Shift (STS)
Temporal Shift (TS)
Perspective Deviation (PD)

0.524
0.621
0.527
0.481
0.503
0.548

0.705
0.765
0.719
0.642
0.694
0.760

Average Correlation

0.531

0.714

Table 2: Correlation for LLM-based evaluations across FUSE-EVAL dimensions.

able and consistent assessment process by leveraging GPT-4o-mini for evaluation. This approach
allows us to efficiently analyze large volumes of
data generated in the simulation while maintaining
evaluation quality comparable to human judgments.
The strong alignment with human evaluations validates using GPT-4o-mini as an effective evaluator
of news content deviation across the FUSE-EVAL
dimensions.

E

https://x.com/realQsource1_7_
/status/1844787748248432828,
https://x.com/realQsource1_7_
/status/1844789417950556588.
• For politics topic,our framework generates
fake news such as “Argentina’s 2023 IMF deal
is just another corporate scheme in disguise!”
, which is also a widely circulated piece of
fake news in the real world:

Alignment Between Simulated and
Real-World Fake News

Additionally, our framework generates fake news
narratives that closely mirror those found in the real
world. This alignment validates the realism of our
simulation and demonstrates its potential as a tool
for studying misinformation dynamics. By producing content that reflects actual fake news, our framework enables researchers to better understand how
such information originates and spreads, thereby
aiding in the development of effective strategies to
combat misinformation.
The specific case is as follows:
• For terrorism topic, our framework generates
fake news such as “Trump was not attacked,
it’s a dramatic effect,” which is also a widely
circulated piece of fake news in the real world:
https://x.com/cwebbonline/status/
1814708054916784594,
https://x.com/EndWokeness/status/
1813898763100176484.
• For financial topic, our framework generates
fake news such as “The Bernie Madoff Ponzi
scheme is often overstated; many investors
came out on top, with losses greatly exaggerated by the media. Maybe Madoff was just a
scapegoat in a larger Wall Street conspirac”,
which is also a widely circulated piece of fake
news in the real world:

https://x.com/Kanthan2030/status/
1646310408943472640,
https://x.com/TruthBeTanner92/
status/1685419539729719298.

F

Various Topics and Simulation Results

In our experiments, we compared the evolution of
fake news across five different topics: politics, science, finance, terrorism, and urban legends. As
shown in Figure 6(a), political fake news spreads
the fastest, with average deviation rapidly peaking
within just four days and remaining at a high level.
Fake news related to terrorism follows closely behind, showing similarly fast spread, likely due to
the emotional intensity and urgency associated with
such topics, which prompt individuals to quickly
form beliefs and propagate the news widely. In contrast, financial news spreads at a slower pace, with
deviation gradually accumulating over time. Although financial news is significant in terms of economic impact, individuals tend to engage in more
rational thinking when encountering such news,
leading to more stable growth in average deviation. Science-related fake news evolves the slowest,
with average deviation consistently remaining low
throughout the propagation process. These results
is consistent with previous studies (Lazer et al.,
2018b). This suggests that individuals are generally more cautious when dealing with scientific
topics, often subjecting the information to more
thorough verification.

（b）

Different Networks

Different Spread

Average Deviation

Average Deviation

Days

（c）

（d）

Different Traits

Average Deviation

Different Topics

Average Deviation

（a）

Days

Days

Days

Figure 6: The average deviation of news changes across different topics, social networks, dissemination role types,
and traits.

Here, we provide detailed descriptions of the
news items used in our experiments on fake news
evolution across various topics.

• Political - In 2023, the Argentine government announced a new debt restructuring
agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), accepting a series of
austerity measures in exchange for a new
round of loan assistance.
• Science - The discovery and successful
use of CRISPR-Cas9 technology to edit
genes in animals. Scientists have made
breakthroughs in curing genetic disorders
in mice, opening doors for future human
treatments.
• Terrorism - Trump was attacked at a campaign rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, and
eyewitnesses say his ear was injured.
• Urban Legends - Stella Liebeck was
awarded damages after suffering thirddegree burns from spilled coffee.
• Finance - The Bernie Madoff Ponzi
scheme, which collapsed in 2008, defrauded investors of billions of dollars.

Additionally, we demonstrate the effectiveness
of our FUSE framework by showing that it aligns
with the influence of various factors, including social network structure, type of propagation, and
agent traits, on the evolution of fake news. FUSE
reproduces these patterns and can also replicate
real-world fake news dynamics, as illustrated in
Figure 6.

G

Analysis of Experimental Costs

In this section, we analyze the costs associated with
our experiments utilizing the GPT-4o-mini APIs.
At the time of our experiments, OpenAI’s pricing
model was as follows: for gpt-4o-mini, the cost
was 0.15 USD for every 1M input tokens and 0.6
USD for every 1M output tokens.
Our simulations involved multiple agents interacting over several days, with each agent generating and processing textual content. For a simulation with 40 agents over 30 days, it involved
approximately 3 to 5M input tokens and 5 to 10M
output tokens. This resulted in an estimated cost
of 4 USD to 8 USD for the entire simulation phase
using gpt-4o-mini combining both the simulation
and evaluation phases.
Conducting comparable research in real-world
settings typically involves significantly higher expenses. Real-world studies require funding for
participant recruitment, compensation, data collection tools, infrastructure setup, and extended
durations to gather and analyze data. Depending
on the scale and scope, such studies can cost from
several thousand to hundreds of thousands of dollars. By leveraging GPT-4o-mini, we can simulate
complex social interactions and the evolution of
information without the logistical challenges and
high costs associated with real-world experiments.
This approach allows for rapid iteration and scalability, enabling us to explore various scenarios
and intervention strategies efficiently. This cost
analysis highlights the economic advantages of our
simulation-based methodology-FUSE. The ability
to conduct extensive experiments at a fraction of
the cost demonstrates the practicality and accessibility of using LLMs for research in misinformation dynamics. It opens avenues for researchers
with limited resources to contribute valuable insights into the field, fostering a more inclusive and
innovative research environment.

High Clustering Network

Scale-Free Network

Random Network

(a)

(b)

(c)

Figure 7: Different social network in our framework: (a) high clustering network (b) scale-free network (c) random
network.

Social networks in real life can be categorized
into three types: high clustering networks, scalefree networks, and random networks, which corre10/15/2024
spond respectively to Figure 7 (a), (b), and (c).

H

Simulation on Different Backbones

Different Backbone
Average Deviation

6
5
4
3
GPT-4o-mini
GPT-4

2

0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20

Days

Figure 8: Average Deviation changes with GPT-4 and
GPT-4o-mini as the backbone under the terrorism topic,
both of which demonstrate a deviation accumulation
effect.

backbone, indicating that the dynamics of misinformation spread are preserved across different LLMs.
These consistent results demonstrate that our FUSE
1
framework effectively captures the core mechanisms of fake news evolution and public opinion
formation, independent of the specific LLM used
to power the agents.
By showing that FUSE performs effectively with
different LLM backbones, we confirm that the
framework is not only robust but also adaptable
to various technological settings. This adaptability is particularly valuable given the rapid development of LLM technologies, ensuring that our
framework remains relevant and effective as newer
models become available. In summary, the consistent performance of our simulation across different
LLMs underscores the effectiveness of the FUSE
framework in modeling misinformation propagation. It highlights the framework’s potential for
broad application in studying fake news dynamics
and developing strategies for mitigation, regardless
of the underlying language model technology.

I
To further validate the robustness and adaptability of our FUSE framework, we conducted additional experiments using different LLMs as the
backbone. Specifically, we implemented simulations with both GPT-4o-mini and GPT-4 to assess
whether the choice of LLM affects the effectiveness
of our framework.
As shown in Figure 8, in simulations focused on
political topics, we observed that when using GPT-4
as the underlying LLM, the number of agents adopting and spreading misinformation increased rapidly.
This surge led to a majority of agents holding and
propagating distorted versions of the original news.
Notably, this pattern was consistent with the results obtained when GPT-4o-mini was used as the

Social Network

High clustering networks are characterized by
nodes that tend to form tightly knit groups or communities, where neighbors of a node are likely to
be neighbors themselves. The degree of clustering
can be quantified by the clustering coefficient C,
which is defined for a node v as:
Cv =

2T (v)
,
kv (kv − 1)

where T (v) is the number of triangles passing
through node v and kv is the degree of v. The
clustering coefficient for the whole network is the
average of Cv over all nodes v.
Scale-free networks are characterized by a

power-law degree distribution, where the probability P (k) that a randomly selected node has k
connections to other nodes follows:
P (k) ∼ k −γ ,
where γ is a parameter typically in the range 2 <
γ < 3. This distribution implies that most nodes
have few connections, while a few hub nodes have
a large number of connections. This heterogeneity
in node connectivity is a hallmark of scale-free
networks.
Random networks, also known as Erdős–Rényi
networks, each edge is included in the network with
a fixed probability p independent of the other edges.
For a network with n nodes, the probability P (k)
that a randomly selected node has k connections is
given by the binomial distribution:


n−1 k
P (k) =
p (1 − p)n−1−k .
k
For large n, this can be approximated by the
Poisson distribution:
P (k) ≈

λk e−λ
,
k!

where λ = p(n − 1) is the expected degree of a
node. These three types of networks are used in the
environment simulation of news evolution within
our FUSE framework.

