From Skepticism to Acceptance:
Simulating the Attitude Dynamics Toward Fake News
Yuhan Liu1 , Xiuying Chen2∗ , Xiaoqing Zhang1 , Xing Gao3 , Ji Zhang3 , Rui Yan1∗
1
Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence, Renmin University of China
2
Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence
3
Alibaba DAMO Academy
yuhan.liu@ruc.edu.cn

arXiv:2403.09498v2 [cs.SI] 23 Dec 2024

Abstract
In the digital era, the rapid propagation of fake
news and rumors via social networks brings notable
societal challenges and impacts public opinion regulation. Traditional fake news modeling typically
forecasts the general popularity trends of different groups or numerically represents opinions shift.
However, these methods often oversimplify realworld complexities and overlook the rich semantic information of news text. The advent of large
language models (LLMs) provides the possibility
of modeling subtle dynamics of opinion. Consequently, in this work, we introduce a Fake news
Propagation Simulation framework (FPS) based on
LLM, which studies the trends and control of fake
news propagation in detail. Specifically, each agent
in the simulation represents an individual with a
distinct personality. They are equipped with both
short-term and long-term memory, as well as a
reflective mechanism to mimic human-like thinking. Every day, they engage in random opinion exchanges, reflect on their thinking, and update their
opinions. Our simulation results uncover patterns
in fake news propagation related to topic relevance,
and individual traits, aligning with real-world observations. Additionally, we evaluate various intervention strategies and demonstrate that early and
appropriately frequent interventions strike a balance between governance cost and effectiveness,
offering valuable insights for practical applications.
Our study underscores the significant utility and potential of LLMs in combating fake news1 .

1

Introduction

Online social media provides an accessible and cost-effective
way to share information, promoting quick knowledge dissemination. However, its widespread use also leads to misinformation, causing global panic and emphasizing the importance of controlling false information. For example, during
∗

Corresponding authors.
We have released the code and appendix at https://github.com/
LiuYuHan31/FPS
1

the 2016 US presidential election, fake news comprised approximately 6% of total news consumption [Grinberg et al.,
2019]. This issue is not confined to politics; it extends to other
sectors like the stock markets [Bollen et al., 2011], the aftermath of terrorist attacks [Starbird et al., 2014], and responses
to natural disasters [Gupta et al., 2013].
A variety of modeling methods have been developed to
study the mechanisms behind the propagation of fake information [Garimella et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2019]. From
the macro-level, [Kimura et al., 2009] categorize populations
into susceptible and infected groups, and define transformation probabilities for each group to simulate the macro-level
propagation mechanism, as depicted in Figure 1(a).
More detailed, from the micro-level, [Jalili and Perc, 2017]
define the numerical conditions that determine whether each
individual will change their opinion, as illustrated in Figure 1(b). However, these models commonly depend on numerical representations for opinions and messages. Such a
simplified approach often fails to capture the complex linguistic nuances found in real-life conversations. For instance,
the intricate reasoning process, thoughts, and opinions about
a topic ought not to be merely reduced to a single sentiment
score. Additionally, individuals with diverse personality traits
have varied reactions to the same subject, which cannot be accurately represented by these numerical models.
In this work, we propose a Fake news Propagation Simulation framework (FPS), with each individual in the network represented as an LLM agent. This method offers
several advantages. First, FPS allows for the simulation of
users with varied personas and backgrounds, enabling researchers to study diverse behavioral patterns. Second, LLMbased simulations effectively replicate the textual nature of
fake news, complex human reasoning, and dynamic opinion
shifts, thereby enhancing explainability. Third, the scalability of LLM-based simulations enables the analysis of fake
news propagation across diverse scenarios and demographic
groups, thus offering extensive and valuable insights.
Specifically, in FPS, we initialize agents in the network
with unique personas including age, name, educational background, and personal traits. The propagation of information
begins with an infected individual who believes in the fake
news and communicates this belief to others. On each day,
each agent randomly communicates with several other agents
and changes their opinions on the topic, deciding whether to

Popularity Prediction

-- Fit
-- Tweet Data

(b) Previous Micro Level Modeling
susceptible

infected

News: President Obama was
hurt in White House explosions

That’s not true. I’ve never seen it on the news.

! < #ℎ%&'ℎ()*

Time

(c) Our Micro Level Modeling

You can’t trust the mainstream media!

! = ! + .()*+,

Similar things happened before!

! > #ℎ%&'ℎ()*

I changed my mind. This news is so shocking!

…

Infected Popularity Number

(a) Previous Macro Level Modeling

(d) Our Macro Level Modeling

Figure 1: (a) Previous macro-level fake news modeling focused on predicting the overall infected population but lacked a detailed analysis of
the dynamics in human attitudes. (b) Previous micro-level models translated human opinions and communication into numerical values, i.e.,
θ ∈ R and x ∈ R. (c) Our micro-level simulation uniquely captures attitude changes through natural language processing. (d) Additionally,
our multiple agents constitute a macro-level simulation that also enables the prediction of popularity trends.

believe in the fake news based on their reasoning and prior
interactions. Each agent is equipped with a short-term memory to capture the day’s interactions and a long-term memory
for broader context, along with a reflective reasoning process
to mimic the human thought process.
Furthermore, we introduce an official agent with different intervention mechanisms to counter the propagation of
fake news. From a macro-level perspective, we calculate
the overall popularity of the infected, susceptible, and recovered populations to understand broader trends. Concurrently,
our micro-level analysis concentrates on tracking the evolving viewpoints of each individual.
Our FPS is validated through comprehensive simulation
experiments, closely aligning with real-world observations
from prior research. Notably, our findings show that political fake news prpagates notably faster than topics such as
terrorism, natural disasters, science, urban legends, or financial information, consistent with previous studies [Vosoughi
et al., 2018]. Moreover, agents characterized by specific traits
are more susceptible to believing in fake news [Ibrahim et al.,
2022; Mirzabeigi et al., 2023; Afassinou, 2014].
From a governance perspective, our findings show that addressing fake news just once is not enough. Early and consistent efforts to correct misinformation work best in maintaining low propagation of fake news, offering important guidance for timely and effective information management.
Our contribution can be summarized in the following ways:
Firstly, we developed an FPS framework based on LLM
for fake news, offering extensive semantic information and
analysis material for macro- and micro-level studies on fake
news. Second, our experiments align closely with conclusions drawn from real-world studies, confirming the value of
our FPS as a research tool. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of early and frequent interventions in mitigating the
propagation of fake news, providing suggestions for policy
formulation and public awareness.

2

Related Work

Fake News Detection. Fake news detection is an essential
step in the fight against misinformation [Guo et al., 2021].

Earlier works in this area include the study by [Qian et al.,
2018], which focuses on the early detection of fake news,
considering only the text of news articles available at the time
of detection. As the field evolved, a variety of methods have
been introduced to improve detection efficacy. For example,
[Jin et al., 2022] move towards fine-grained reasoning for
fake news detection by better reflecting the logical processes
of human thinking and enabling the modeling of subtle clues.
Our research extends these foundations by tackling the propagation of fake news post-detection.
Fake News Propagation Modeling. Fake information
propagation modeling plays a key role in understanding misinformation propagation and is vital for interventions like
early warning [Garimella et al., 2017], information blocking [Song et al., 2015], and truth confrontation [Wang et al.,
2019]. These models generally fall into three categories [Sun
et al., 2023]: Epidemic models such as the SIR (SusceptibleInfected-Recovered) model [Zhu and Wang, 2017] divide the
population into different groups and define the transformation probabilities of each group to simulate the propagation
mechanism at the macro level. Point process-based methods
treat information propagation as a stochastic arrival process,
thus modeling the arrival of propagation [Chen et al., 2019;
Gao et al., 2019]. Diffusion models define the propagation
conditions of each individual based on a numerical threshold [Jalili and Perc, 2017]. Unlike previous studies, our research adopts an LLM-based simulation method, offering a
textual approach instead of traditional numerical calculations.
LLM-based Agents for Social Simulation. Integrating
LLMs into simulating social dynamics represents a burgeoning field of research, yielding promising results [Park et al.,
2023; Kaiya et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023]. These LLM-based
generative agents excel in digital environments, demonstrating proficiency in natural language tasks [Chen et al., 2023b;
Chen et al., 2023a]. [Törnberg et al., 2023] used LLMs and
agent-based modeling to simulate social media, focusing on
news feed algorithms and offering real-world insights. Further, [Park et al., 2022] demonstrated that LLM-based agents
can generate social media content indistinguishable from that
produced by humans. Our approach of using LLM for agent-

Agent Interaction Simulator

Dynamic Opinion Agents

Susceptible

Personal Information
-Name:Alice
-Age: 30
-Personality traits: Empathy,
Independence, Optimism
-Education: Bachelor

Infected
Recovered

Dual Memory

…

Short-term
memory:
Long-term
memory

Decision
-Reasoning
-Update opinion
Information feedback

𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 = 1

Timeline

𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 = n

Figure 2: Our framework equips each agent with reasoning and response capabilities by creating a feedback loop between dynamic opinion
agents (DOA) and an agent interaction simulator (AIS). ‘Susceptible’ denotes individuals skeptical of the fake news, ‘infected’ refers to those
who believe in the fake news, and ‘recovered’ means individuals who previously believed the fake news but now do not.

based fake news simulation is, to our knowledge, a pioneering
effort in this field.

3

Method

3.1

Problem Formulation

Formally, we construct a simulation with a pool of N LLM
agents A = (a1 , . . . , aN ) and a fake news topic F . For initialization, each agent has a unique persona, including their
initial attitude towards the fake news. On t-th day, each agent
ai will randomly interact with c other agents from the pool A.
At the end of the day, every agent reflects on the exchanged
information and decides whether to believe in the fake news.
This process is iterated over T days. Through these daily iterations, agent opinions are accumulated to plot the trajectory
of different populations, resulting in a curve that illustrates
the dynamics of the fake news within the network. Additionally, we scrutinize the evolution of the agents’ beliefs to examine how individual and collective opinions shift over time.

3.2

Our Simulation Framework

As depicted in Figure 2, our framework FPS integrates two
components: a Dynamic Opinion Agent (DOA) to simulate each agent’s cognitive processes and an Agent Interaction Simulator (AIS) to construct the interaction environment.
Within the DOA module, each agent’s decision-making is
powered by LLM, with a predefined role that includes attributes such as education level, gender, and personality traits.
Daily, agents engage in discussions with their peers, reflecting on these interactions and adjusting their beliefs on the
fake news accordingly. The AIS module plans the encounters, determining which agents interact, and the frequency of
these interactions per day. Additionally, in scenarios where
official announcements are released to clarify the fake news,
the AIS takes charge of distributing this information. At the
end of each day, the simulation progresses by one step, and
the agents’ belief states are updated.

3.3

Dynamic Opinion Agent

The DOA agent focuses on the micro-level, where the dynamics of each agent’s opinions can be studied in detail.
Persona. We randomly equip each agent with persona pi
including their name, age, trait, and education level, since
these are factors that might influence their attitude toward
fake news. When designing the traits, we adhere to the Big 5
trait model [Barrick and Mount, 1991]. This model is widely
recognized for its effectiveness in encapsulating key personality dimensions.
Dual Memory. In our model, we consider that an individual’s opinion is influenced not only by their own beliefs but
also by their interactions with others. This interaction-driven
change in thought is gradual and cumulative, rather than immediate. Accordingly, in our simulation, agents engage with
a random number of others’ opinions each day, leading to a
periodic update of their views.
However, owing to the potentially vast volume of interactions, storing all of them in detail is impractical. To address
this challenge, we implement a dual memory system for each
agent, comprising a long-term memory mli and a short-term
memory msi . The long-term memory compresses and stores a
summarized history of past interactions, while the short-term
memory reflects and summarizes conversations from the current day. At the end of each day, agents reflect on these interactions, allowing their opinions to evolve. The function
s
prompt for short-term memory fm
is as:
Summarize the opinions you have heard in a few sentences, including whether or not they believe in the news.
l
and long-term memory prompt fm
is as:

Recap of previous long-term memory, today’s short-term
summary, please update long-term memory by integrating
today’s summary with the existing long-term memory, ensuring to maintain continuity and add any new insights.
The short-term memory is cleared at the end of each day

Algorithm 1 Fake News Propagation Simulation
1: Input: Number of agents N , interaction rate c
2: Output: Final memory state and opinion of each agent
3: Initialize agents:
4: for each agent i in 1 to N do
5:
Randomly assign persona pi
6:
Define long-term memory mli,0 and short-term mem-

ory msi,0
7:
Set initial belief state obi,0 and initial text opinion descriptor oli,0
8: end for
9: Simulate daily interactions:
10: for each day t in 1 to T do
11:
for each agent i do
12:
Select c agents to interact with (a1 , ..., ac )
13:
Write i-th agent’s short-term memory msi,t with details from the day’s interactions
14:
Based on msi,t and long-term memory mli,t update
l
(msi,t , mli,t−1 )
long-term memory: mli,t = fm
l
l
15:
Based on oi,t−1 , mi,t , pi , update obi,t , oli,t =
fo (pi , mli,t−1 , oli,t−1 )
16:
end for
17: end for
18: return Final memory state mli,T and opinion oli,T of
each agent
to accommodate new interactions. This approach achieves a
balance between retaining crucial historical context and managing the volume of daily interaction data.
Reasoning for Opinion. A significant difference from previous approaches involves using text descriptions to simulate
each individual’s perspective on fake news, providing a richer
and more nuanced explanation. Intuitively, the evolution of
these opinions is shaped by multiple factors such as personal
traits, education level, social interactions, and individual reasoning processes. We adopt the tweet format for agents to
express their opinions, as our preliminary experiments have
shown that this format encourages succinct and precise statements. The updated prompt fo is generally as follows:
You are simulating a real person with [trait] and [education level]. Given your [previous personal opinion] and
the new information in your [long memory], update your
opinion. Compose a tweet expressing your opinion. Use
0 for disbelief and 1 for belief to indicate your opinion.
Provide reasoning behind your tweet and explain the rationale for your belief.
The overall dynamic opinion agent algorithm is shown in
Algorithm 1.

3.4

Agent Interaction Simulator

Alongside the DOA module, agents form a social network,
allowing us to calculate the number of individuals in different groups at the macro level. We adopt a modified SIR
(Susceptible-Infectious-Recovered) model, where agents can

transition between being susceptible to fake news, becoming
infected by propagating it, and then being considered recovered after the misinformation is corrected. However, unlike
the traditional SIR model [Zhu and Wang, 2017], our recovered agents can become infected again due to the dynamic
nature of people’s opinions. This aspect of our model differs from both the SIS (Susceptible-Infectious-Susceptible)
model [Kimura et al., 2009] and the standard SIR model,
where recovered individuals do not get infected again.
In the traditional SIS model [Kimura et al., 2009], the simulation formulas for the infected and susceptible population
are presented. If we modify our model by changing the ‘recovered’ label to ‘susceptible’, our model becomes equivalent
to the SIS model, allowing us to apply the same formulas in
our simulation. The key formulas used in the SIS model are
differential equations that describe how the numbers of susceptible and infectious individuals change over time:
dS
= −β · S · I + γ · I,
dt

(1)

dI
= β · S · I − γ · I,
(2)
dt
dI
where dS
dt and dt are the rates of change of susceptible and
infectious individuals over time, respectively. β is the transmission rate, representing the probability of transmission per
contact between a susceptible and an infectious individual. γ
is the recovery rate, representing the rate at which infectious
individuals recover and become susceptible again. If β is high
and γ is low, the disease spreads rapidly and infects a large
portion of the population. Conversely, if β is low and γ is
high, the disease spreads slowly and may die out.
Intervention. In the fake news evolution, a critical feature is the intervention mechanism, activated when an authoritative entity propagates clarifications about fake news. To
simulate such events, our AIS also introduces a new agent
designed to represent an official spokesperson. The official
agent will issue official refutations to all other agents on designated days to combat the propagation of fake news:
As the official spokesperson, I hereby issue a formal statement of refutation regarding the recent news report circulated on various media platforms concerning [topic].
The full version of the prompt is in Appendix A.
We closely monitor the interactions and influence of this
spokesperson to evaluate their impact on the agents’ beliefs
and measure how effectively they can stem the tide of the
fake narrative in our simulated environment.

4

Experiments

4.1

Implementation Details

We use a Python script to operationalize our simulation FPS.
The LLM used is gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 accessed via OpenAI
API calls. Agents and the world they live in were defined using a Python library Mesa [Kazil et al., 2020]. Their names
are selected using the names-dataset library, and ages are randomly selected from 18 to 64. Agent traits are based on

Settings
Politics Topic
Science Topic
Skeptical Trait
Credulous Trait
No Official
Single Official Declaration
Multiple Official Declarations

Belief
Average↓
1.000
0.433
0.467
0.867
1.000
0.933
0.900

Belief
Variance
0.000
0.246
0.249
0.116
0.000
0.062
0.090

Infection
Rate↓
2.000
0.867
0.933
1.733
2.000
1.867
1.800

Recovery
Rate↑
0.000
0.333
0.400
0.133
0.000
0.067
0.200

Peak
Rate↓
0.167
0.500
0.433
0.433
0.200
0.500
0.400

Half
Rate↑
0.033
>1
>1
0.167
0.067
0.100
0.200

Table 1: Comparative analysis of fake news evolution across various settings, including differences in topics, traits, and intervention strategies.
Upward or downward arrows represent better control of fake news.

the Big Five traits typically used in psychology [Barrick and
Mount, 1991], with each agent having a 50% chance of possessing a positive or negative version of each trait. We prove
that our framework can be applied on different backbones and
provide API cost in Appendix B and C.

4.2

Metrics

At the macro level, we can track the number of people in the
Infected, Susceptible, and Recovered groups and generate trajectories that visually represent the propagation and containment of fake news within the network. Furthermore, the fitted
parameters, such as the recovery rate γ and the transmission
rate β, can also be used to demonstrate the dynamics of the
network.
Finally, we design additional statistical metrics to give an
intuitive understanding of the propagation of fake news. The
‘Belief Average’ measures the group’s mean belief in fake
news at the simulation’s end, while the ‘Belief Variance’ assesses belief diversity. We track the ‘Infection Rate’, based on
the final infected count over the simulation duration, and the
‘Recovery Rate’, calculated from the recovered count. ‘Peak
Rate’ reflects the maximum infection level during the simulation, and ‘Half Rate’ is the time required for half of the group
to become infected.

4.3

Macro-level Observation

Topic Comparison. We conduct experiments on six different topics such as politics, science, and terrorism. Generally, we found that fake political news propagates faster than
false news about terrorism, science, or financial information,
which is consistent with previous research [Vosoughi et al.,
2018]. Here, we selected two topics for which the group
curve and fitting results are shown in Figure 3. Other figures
and details can be found in Appendix D. It is evident that
the number of infected individuals for political news grows
fast, reaching its peak in just four days. The group quickly
forms a firm opinion, uniformly believing the fake news without change. In contrast, for the science topic, infected number grows more slowly, fluctuating around 10 people. Meanwhile, the number of recovered individuals increases, indicating that people tend to form a stable opinion that is skeptical
of the fake news. The growth comparison can also be demonstrated by the fitted β and γ parameters, where the β for the
politics topic is twice as large, and the γ is one-tenth. This
demonstrates that it is easier for agents to identify false news
in science compared to politics. The good alignment between

our simulated number and the classic SIS model also verifies
the accuracy and reliability of our simulation approach. Table 1 presents more statistical results. In politics, the belief
average is higher with less variance, accompanied by a larger
infection rate and a zero recovery rate. The topics of terrorism and financial information exhibit similar trends to science
as shown in Appendix.
Trait Comparison. The Big Five personality traits framework categorizes human personality into five broad dimensions: Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. Studies [Ibrahim et al., 2022;
Mirzabeigi et al., 2023] have found that individuals with
high agreeableness and high neuroticism are more likely to
believe rumors than those with low agreeableness and low
neuroticism. Therefore, we conduct a comparative study in
which the three other traits are still randomly sampled, but
for the two selected traits, one group’s traits are only sampled
from the positive choices, meaning high agreeableness and
high neuroticism, which we denote as the ‘Credulous Trait’.
Conversely, we call the opposite group, characterized by low
agreeableness and low neuroticism, the ‘Skeptical Trait’.
From Figure 3, we can see that the infection curve for the
credulous trait rises more rapidly compared with the skeptical trait. The number of recovered individuals shows a slight
upward trend, which aligns with the intuition that skeptical
individuals tend to question external viewpoints and maintain
more consistent opinions. In contrast, the recovery number
for the credulous trait is always around 2, indicating that they
are more prone to changing their opinions frequently. The
statistic numbers in Table 1 also confirm these observations.
All the above results align with previous findings, demonstrating the effectiveness of our framework.

4.4

Micro-level Observation

Figure 5 provides a comparative micro-analysis of two individuals’ responses to fake news. Michael, characterized by his credulous nature, as demonstrated by ‘empathy’
(high agreeableness) and ‘emotionality’ (high neuroticism),
is prone to being influenced by others. For instance, on the
sixth day, he altered his perspective to align with others, because others ‘all believe’ in his memory records. Furthermore, he frequently changes his opinions, with his stance on
fake news shifting back and forth over several periods of 3 to
14 days. Notably, his reasons for these opinion changes can
be traced back to a well-reasoned thought process. For example, on the sixth day, his decision to believe in the news was

(a) Topic and Trait Comparison

(b) Ablation Study

Decreased Diversity !

Less Personal Opinion!

Day 1: Still not convinced that hurricanes have crossed the equator since 2003.
#Skeptical #NeedMoreEvidence
Day 2: Still not convinced that hurricanes have crossed the equator since 2003.
#Skeptical #NeedMoreEvidence
Diversity
…
drop
25%!
Day 6: The ongoing debate on hurricanes crossing the equator since
2003
continues
to highlight the need for more research and evidence in meteorology. #StaySkeptical
#EquatorCrossing #Meteorology
Day 7: The ongoing debate on hurricanes crossing the equator since 2003 continues
to highlight the need for more research and evidence in meteorology. #StaySkeptical
#EquatorCrossing #Meteorology

Still waiting for solid scientific evidence to prove
that hurricanes can cross the equator. Skepticism
persists.
Wow, I didn't realize there was so much debate
over hurricanes crossing the equator! Excited to
see more evidence and insights in the future!
The debate on hurricanes crossing the equator
continues. #WeatherDebate'

Figure 3: Dynamic group population number changes in terms of different topics and traits, with an accompanying fitting curve based on the
SIS model. The red dashed line represents the results of the SIS model fitting, where β is the transmission rate and γ is the recovery rate.

influenced by his conviction in principles like ‘I firmly believe
in upholding the rule of law and protecting democracy’. This
indicates that the opinion shifts in our FPS are grounded in
thoughtful reasoning. In contrast, Sandra possesses a skepticism trait characterized by ‘distrust’ (low agreeableness) and
‘placidity’ (low neuroticism), which makes her more skeptical and composed. Throughout the 15 days, She seldom
changes her opinion. On the ninth day, despite encountering
different viewpoints and storing phrases like ‘differing views
on this matter’ and ‘opinions on this topic may continue to
evolve and vary’ in her memory, Sandra remained unchanged
in her opinion.

5

Analysis and Discussion

5.1

Fake News Intervention

Remember that in the AIS section, we integrate an official
agent to fight against fake news. Here, we first study the
proper intervention strategy of the official agent. We study
political topics, as they are most impacted by fake news, posing significant challenges for fact-checking and debunking.

Intervention Strategy. Firstly, we introduce the official
agent into our model on both the first day and the seventh
day. On the first day, the fake news has not yet propagate
widely, but by the third day, many already believe it. As illustrated in Figure 4, each timing choice offers distinct advantages. Introducing the official agent at the beginning can
substantially reduce the number of people initially believing
in fake news. However, as time progresses, people may revert
to believing in the fake news due to a forgetting mechanism.
On the other hand, introducing the official agent on the seventh day demonstrates a more sustained effect, with a gradual
and consistent decline in the number of affected individuals.
However, since the number of people influenced by fake news
is already high by the seventh day, a substantial portion of the
population remains affected despite the intervention.
This leads to our second experiment, where we investigate
the frequency of introducing official agent necessary to maintain fake news propagation at a manageable level. We tested
scenarios of releasing official news daily and every three days
as shown in ‘Official Intervention’. Results show that there is

30

30

25

Number of people

Number of people

25

Early Intervention

20

5
0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14

20

15

10

15

10

5

Official Interventions

25

20

15

10

30

25

20

15

Midstage Intervention

Number of people

No Intervention

Number of people

30

10

5

0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
Infected
Susceptible
Recovered

5
0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14

Figure 4: Comparison of models with different office agent intervention strategies. It can be seen that early and reasonably frequent regulation
on fake news can lead to a significant reduction in its propagation and influence.
1

I firmly believe that upholding the rule of law
and protecting democracy should be top
priorities. Therefore, I trust that ...

Credulous Trait

Ages: 37
Traits: Empathy, Precision,
Dignity, Emotionality, Insight
Education: Master's Degree

The belief about
fake news

Michael

The belief about
fake news

Skeptical Trait

Ages: 24
Traits: Distrust, Efficiency,
Pessimism, Placidity, Depth
Education: Master's Degree

Long Memory: …They all believe in the
news and emphasize the importance of ….

0
1

Sandra

0

0

1

2

3

4

Long Memory : Some argue
that … , while others
believe … It is uncertain
whether these opinions stem
from ...

1

2

3

6

Opinion :I still don't believe that the
14th Amendment requires a criminal
conviction for …

7

8

9

Opinion :The 14th Amendment still
requires a criminal conviction for …

4

5

6

7

8

10

Opinion: I
don’t
believe …

11

12

13

14

Long Memory : As previously mentioned, …,
with varying opinions on …. Today, there are
differing views on this matter, with some
arguing that …, while others believe …. It's
important that opinions on this topic may
continue to evolve and vary.

I believed that …specifies the need
for …, and today's discussion
changed my belief,…

Opinion: The 14th
Amendment is clear for …

0

5

Opinion: I
do
believe …

Opinion: I believe that … is needed
to .., because it prevents … based
on political biases.

9

10

11

12

13

Fake News:The 14th
Amendment in the
U.S. Constitution
expressly specifies
that a criminal
conviction for
insurrection is
needed to disqualify
a candidate from
state or federal office.

Infected State
Agent’s Belief
Agent’s Reasoning

14

Figure 5: Micro-level case study of two people of different traits. Michael, possessing a credulous nature, frequently changes his opinions,
whereas Sandra, being skeptical, tends to maintain a consistent view.

no significant difference between these two approaches, indicating that fact-checking news can be released at intervals
without compromising its effectiveness in controlling fake
news at a reasonable cost.
Chronic Believers in Fake News. Despite the optimistic
outlook on interventions against fake news, we observe that
some individuals still become infected. Our analysis of the
data reveals that approximately 50% of the infected group
remains infected throughout, indicating that even official interventions have a limited impact on changing their beliefs.
Upon examining these cases, we find that the infected individuals vary in age and education level. However, they share
common characteristics such as ‘high agreeableness’. These
traits align with findings from our previous trait study. This
observation suggests that interventions against fake news
might be more effective if they are tailored to address these
specific traits.

sence of short-term memory hinders the reflection and consolidation of new information, leading to the formation of
long-term memory that merely accumulates daily opinions
without deep analysis. This process results in monotonous
and undiversified opinions. To quantify this, we employed the
diversity metric [Li et al., 2015]. Our analysis reveals that the
average opinion diversity in the FPS without short-term memory is only three-quarters of the diversity score compared to
the full model. The full score can be found in Appendix E.
Finally, we examined the impact of removing the reasoning
process in the opinion update mechanism. This alteration has
the least effect on overall performance, as it retains the main
components of our framework. However, a closer examination of the generated opinions reveals that the agents’ opinions resemble mere descriptions of the opinions they receive,
lacking the advanced function of thoughtful reasoning or expressing their own opinions.

5.2

6

Ablation Study

We chose a science topic to demonstrate the effectiveness of
our model’s components, including long-term memory, shortterm memory, and reasoning, as shown in Figure 1(b). This
setting illustrates a balanced dynamic of opinion change.
Firstly, when long-term memory is removed, the influence
of short-term interactions from today alone is insufficient to
persuade people to change their opinions. In this scenario,
the simulation fails to produce effective interactions. The ab-

Conclusion

In this study, we present the first LLM-based simulation
framework for fake news research, incorporating short-term
and long-term memory, along with reasoning processes that
mimic human cognition. Our simulations offer not only
micro-level observations that align with previous studies on
fake news topics and traits but also correspond with earlier
numerical studies on macro-level simulations. It also includes
an intervention mechanism to curb the propagation of fake

news, providing practical strategies for real-world monitoring. This innovative approach aims to advance research in
the field of fake news analysis and mitigation.

References
[Afassinou, 2014] Komi Afassinou. Analysis of the impact of education rate on the rumor spreading mechanism. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and Its Applications, 414:43–52, 2014.
[Barrick and Mount, 1991] Murray R Barrick and Michael K
Mount. The big five personality dimensions and job
performance: a meta-analysis. Personnel psychology,
44(1):1–26, 1991.
[Bollen et al., 2011] Johan Bollen, Huina Mao, and Xiaojun
Zeng. Twitter mood predicts the stock market. Journal of
computational science, 2(1):1–8, 2011.
[Chen et al., 2019] Xueqin Chen, Fan Zhou, Kunpeng
Zhang, Goce Trajcevski, Ting Zhong, and Fengli Zhang.
Information diffusion prediction via recurrent cascades
convolution. In 2019 IEEE 35th international conference
on data engineering (ICDE), pages 770–781. IEEE, 2019.
[Chen et al., 2023a] Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao,
Xin Cheng, Qiang Yang, Qishen Zhang, Xin Gao, and Xiangliang Zhang. A topic-aware summarization framework
with different modal side information. SIGIR, 2023.
[Chen et al., 2023b] Xiuying Chen,
Guodong Long,
Chongyang Tao, Mingzhe Li, Xin Gao, Chengqi Zhang,
and Xiangliang Zhang. Improving the robustness of
summarization systems with dual augmentation. ACL,
2023.
[Gao et al., 2019] Xiaofeng Gao, Zhenhao Cao, Sha Li, Bin
Yao, Guihai Chen, and Shaojie Tang. Taxonomy and evaluation for microblog popularity prediction. ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data (TKDD),
13(2):1–40, 2019.
[Garimella et al., 2017] Kiran Garimella, Aristides Gionis,
Nikos Parotsidis, and Nikolaj Tatti. Balancing information
exposure in social networks. Advances in neural information processing systems, 30, 2017.
[Grinberg et al., 2019] Nir Grinberg, Kenneth Joseph, Lisa
Friedland, Briony Swire-Thompson, and David Lazer.
Fake news on twitter during the 2016 us presidential election. Science, 363(6425):374–378, 2019.
[Guo et al., 2021] Mingfei Guo, Xiuying Chen, Juntao Li,
Dongyan Zhao, and Rui Yan. How does truth evolve into
fake news? an empirical study of fake news evolution.
In Companion Proceedings of the Web Conference 2021,
pages 407–411, 2021.
[Gupta et al., 2013] Aditi Gupta, Hemank Lamba, Ponnurangam Kumaraguru, and Anupam Joshi. Faking sandy:
characterizing and identifying fake images on twitter during hurricane sandy. In Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World Wide Web, pages 729–736,
2013.

[Ibrahim et al., 2022] Nada Ibrahim, Mariam Elzayany, and
Amr Elmougy. The effects of personality traits on rumors. In International Conference on Practical Applications of Agents and Multi-Agent Systems, pages 181–192.
Springer, 2022.
[Jalili and Perc, 2017] Mahdi Jalili and Matjaž Perc. Information cascades in complex networks. Journal of Complex
Networks, 5(5):665–693, 2017.
[Jin et al., 2022] Yiqiao Jin, Xiting Wang, Ruichao Yang,
Yizhou Sun, Wei Wang, Hao Liao, and Xing Xie. Towards fine-grained reasoning for fake news detection. In
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 36, pages 5746–5754, 2022.
[Kaiya et al., 2023] Zhao Kaiya, Michelangelo Naim, Jovana Kondic, Manuel Cortes, Jiaxin Ge, Shuying Luo,
Guangyu Robert Yang, and Andrew Ahn. Lyfe agents:
Generative agents for low-cost real-time social interactions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.02172, 2023.
[Kazil et al., 2020] Jackie Kazil, David Masad, and Andrew
Crooks. Utilizing python for agent-based modeling: The
mesa framework. In Social, Cultural, and Behavioral
Modeling: 13th International Conference, SBP-BRiMS
2020, Washington, DC, USA, October 18–21, 2020, Proceedings 13, pages 308–317. Springer, 2020.
[Kimura et al., 2009] Masahiro Kimura, Kazumi Saito, and
Hiroshi Motoda. Efficient estimation of influence functions for sis model on social networks. In Twenty-First
International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
2009.
[Li et al., 2015] Jiwei Li, Michel Galley, Chris Brockett,
Jianfeng Gao, and Bill Dolan. A diversity-promoting objective function for neural conversation models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1510.03055, 2015.
[Li et al., 2023] Chao Li, Xing Su, Chao Fan, Haoying Han,
Cong Xue, and Chunmo Zheng. Quantifying the impact
of large language models on collective opinion dynamics.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.03313, 2023.
[Mirzabeigi et al., 2023] Mahdieh Mirzabeigi,
Mahsa
Torabi, and Tahereh Jowkar. The role of personality
traits and the ability to detect fake news in predicting
information avoidance during the covid-19 pandemic.
Library Hi Tech, 2023.
[Park et al., 2022] Joon Sung Park, Lindsay Popowski, Carrie Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and
Michael S Bernstein. Social simulacra: Creating populated prototypes for social computing systems. In Proceedings of the 35th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology, pages 1–18, 2022.
[Park et al., 2023] Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and
Michael S Bernstein. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th
Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and
Technology, pages 1–22, 2023.

[Qian et al., 2018] Feng Qian, Chengyue Gong, Karishma
Sharma, and Yan Liu. Neural user response generator:
Fake news detection with collective user intelligence. In
IJCAI, volume 18, pages 3834–3840, 2018.
[Song et al., 2015] Chonggang Song, Wynne Hsu, and
Mong Li Lee. Node immunization over infectious period.
In Proceedings of the 24th ACM International on Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, pages
831–840, 2015.
[Starbird et al., 2014] Kate Starbird, Jim Maddock, Mania
Orand, Peg Achterman, and Robert M Mason. Rumors,
false flags, and digital vigilantes: Misinformation on twitter after the 2013 boston marathon bombing. IConference
2014 proceedings, 2014.
[Sun et al., 2023] Ling Sun, Yuan Rao, Lianwei Wu, Xiangbo Zhang, Yuqian Lan, and Ambreen Nazir. Fighting false information from propagation process: A survey.
ACM Computing Surveys, 55(10):1–38, 2023.
[Törnberg et al., 2023] Petter Törnberg, Diliara Valeeva,
Justus Uitermark, and Christopher Bail. Simulating social
media using large language models to evaluate alternative
news feed algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.05984,
2023.
[Vosoughi et al., 2018] Soroush Vosoughi, Deb Roy, and
Sinan Aral. The spread of true and false news online. science, 359(6380):1146–1151, 2018.
[Wang et al., 2019] Xinyan Wang, Xiaoming Wang, Fei
Hao, Geyong Min, and Liang Wang. Efficient coupling
diffusion of positive and negative information in online social networks. IEEE Transactions on Network and Service
Management, 16(3):1226–1239, 2019.
[Zhu and Wang, 2017] Liang Zhu and Youguo Wang. Rumor spreading model with noise interference in complex
social networks. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its
Applications, 469:750–760, 2017.

