Hazards in Daily Life?
Enabling Robots to Proactively Detect and Resolve Anomalies
Zirui Song1,2∗ , Guangxian Ouyang3 * , Meng Fang4∗† , Hongbin Na2 , Zijing Shi2 ,
Zhenhao Chen1 , Yujie Fu3 , Zeyu Zhang6 Shiyu Jiang5 Miao Fang3 , Ling Chen2
†

Xiuying Chen1

1 Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence
2 University of Technology Sydney

3 Northeastern University

5 Johns Hopkins University

Turn off the stove,
otherwise there could
be a fire hazard here.

arXiv:2411.00781v1 [cs.RO] 16 Oct 2024

Abstract
Existing household robots have made significant progress in performing routine tasks, such
as cleaning floors or delivering objects. However, a key limitation of these robots is their inability to recognize potential problems or dangers in home environments. For example, a
child may pick up and ingest medication that
has fallen on the floor, posing a serious risk.
We argue that household robots should proactively detect such hazards or anomalies within
the home, and propose the task of anomaly scenario generation. We leverage foundational
models instead of relying on manually labeled
data to build simulated environments. Specifically, we introduce a multi-agent brainstorming
approach, where agents collaborate and generate diverse scenarios covering household hazards, hygiene management, and child safety.
These textual task descriptions are then integrated with designed 3D assets to simulate realistic environments. Within these constructed
environments, the robotic agent learns the necessary skills to proactively discover and handle
the proposed anomalies through task decomposition, and optimal learning approach selection.
We demonstrate that our generated environment
outperforms others in terms of task description
and scene diversity, ultimately enabling robotic
agents to better address potential household
hazards.

1

Passively instructed

The stove is left on, and I need
to turn it off to prevent a
potential fire hazard!

Proactive detection

Figure 1: Comparison of passively instructed robots
and our proactive detection robot. Our paradigm creates
benefits and convenience for safety, even in the absence
of human presence.

However, a critical yet often overlooked scenario
arises when no instructions are provided. According to survey data, 31% of cooking fires are caused
by unattended equipment (Ahrens, 2020). Meanwhile, unintentional injuries are the predominant
cause of death among children, particularly those
aged 1-14 years, encompassing incidents such as
drowning, falls, and accidental poisonings (Worldwide, 2022). A lack of adequate supervision is
often identified as a significant contributor to many
of these fatalities, especially in cases involving
younger children (Hymel et al., 2006; Williams
and Kotch, 2023). It would greatly benefit humans
if household robots could monitor whether stoves
and other fire sources are properly turned off and
detect potential hazards in the home that could
lead to falls or accidental poisonings. Many of
these fires and unintentional injuries could be prevented. However, to the best of our knowledge,
such robotics have yet to be implemented.
Hence, in this work, we propose AnomalyGen,
which can generate diverse anomaly settings covering household hazards, hygiene management, and
child safety in 3D simulation environments, enabling robots to develop proactive detection and
problem-solving abilities, as shown in Figure 1.
Specifically, we first devised a group brainstorming

Introduction

The development of Vision-Language Models
(VLMs) has significantly improved household
robots’ ability to interact with the physical world
in a more human-like manner (Liu et al., 2024b,a;
Cai et al., 2023; Majumdar et al., 2024). Among
these models, the most popular paradigm for such
robots is receiving instructions and performing corresponding operational tasks (Yang et al., 2024;
Driess et al., 2023; Ahn et al., 2022).
* Equal contributions.
†

4 University of Liverpool

6 The Australian National University

Corresponding author

1

setting, where LLM-based agents collaborate to
generate diverse and comprehensive anomaly scenarios. The motivation comes from the observation
that simply prompting an LLM to generate hazard
scenarios results in repetitive and similar settings.
In contrast, group brainstorming in real-life meetings often leads to novel and creative ideas. Based
on these task settings, AnomalyGen automatically
constructs simulated anomalous scenes through
carefully designed 3D asset retrieval, configuration,
and scene setup steps. Finally, AnomalyGen guides
household robots in developing detection and resolution abilities for handling anomalies. It reads
textual descriptions of the simulated environment,
including the 3D coordinates of assets, and automatically identifies potential anomalous tasks that
require attention. AnomalyGen then decomposes
the task into fine-grained sub-tasks and selects the
most appropriate learning method for the household robot. In general, our AnomalyGen leverages
language-based approaches to bridge the domain
gap between foundational models and robot interaction, enabling operations such as control inputs,
operational trajectories, and physical interaction.
For the experiments, AnomalyGen constructs
111 diverse and comprehensive anomaly scenes,
with human evaluation showing high quality and
automatic metrics demonstrating greater diversity compared to previous human-crafted robotic
datasets. Based on this simulation data, household
robots are guided by AnomalyGen to learn and
demonstrate a variety of skills across tasks such
as rigid and articulated object manipulation and
legged locomotion, achieving a task completion
rate of 83%. Additionally, we conduct an error
analysis highlighting the limitations of the current
learning algorithm and VLM, identifying areas for
future improvement and direction.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows:
Firstly, we introduce AnomalyGen, an unsupervised generative framework that enables household robots to autonomously detect and address
anomalies without explicit instructions. Secondly,
AnomalyGen creates a 3D simulation environment with 111 diverse hazard scenarios, generated
through a collaborative brainstorming mechanism,
significantly enhancing task diversity compared to
previous datasets. Thirdly, AnomalyGen enables
robots to autonomously identify anomalies, decompose tasks, and learn appropriate skills using an
effective task decomposition and learning method
with minimal human input.

2

Related Work

2.1

Household Anomaly Detection

Household robotics have seen significant advancements, with researchers developing various benchmarks for embodied AI agents to tackle household
tasks in simulation. Behavior1K (Li et al., 2021b;
Srivastava et al., 2021) introduced a benchmark for
AI agents to complete 100 household activities in
a simulated environment. Housekeep (Kant et al.,
2022) focuses on organizing homes by rearranging
cluttered items, while TidyBot (Wu et al., 2023)
emphasizes personalized household cleanup, aiming to understand and place items in their correct
locations. However, limited work has been done
on anomaly detection in household environments.
The only notable dataset addressing safety-related
topics in this domain is SafetyDetect (Mullen et al.,
2024), which manually configured just seven distinct scenes and required substantial human effort
for scene construction and data collection. Additionally, it is an image-based dataset, not a simulation. In contrast, AnomalyGen autonomously
generates simulation environment and tasks without human intervention.
2.2

Foundation Models in Robotics

With the rapid development of foundation and generative models in multi-modal settings (Poole et al.,
2022; Melas-Kyriazi et al., 2023; Touvron et al.,
2023; Driess et al., 2023; OpenAI, 2023; Liu et al.,
2023; Girdhar et al., 2023), a growing body of
research has begun to harness the capabilities of
foundational models across various domains, such
as visual imagination for skill execution (Du et al.,
2023), and sub-task planning (Ahn et al., 2022;
Huang et al., 2022; Lin et al., 2023), among others.
Some recent works have also attempted to fully
harness the potential of LLMs for robotic manipulation, such as using LLMs for reward function
generation (Yu et al., 2023; Ma et al., 2023), and
sub-task and trajectory generation (Ha et al., 2023).
Additionally, GenSim explored LLM-based robotic
instruction tasks, but it primarily focused on object
manipulation on desktops with a limited set of 3D
assets. Gen2Sim (Katara et al., 2023) extends the
range of task types by generating instead of only
retrieving new 3D assets.
2.3

Simulation Environment

VirtualHome (Puig et al., 2018) and Alfred (Shridhar et al., 2020a) abstract physical interactions to
2

concentrate on symbolic reasoning, yet they lack
physical realism and a comprehensive scope of
actions. Habitat (Savva et al., 2019), employing
3D scans of real homes, focuses on navigation
tasks (Batra et al., 2020) but omits physics-based
interactions. To augment physical realism, Habitat
2.0 (Yenamandra et al., 2023) and iGibson (Srivastava et al., 2021; Li et al., 2021a) introduce realistic actions, interactions with environments, and
object state simulations. Additionally, emerging
simulation platforms such as ManiSkills (Gu et al.,
2023), TDW (Gan et al., 2022), SoftGym (Lin et al.,
2021), and RFUniverse (Fu et al., 2022) emphasize physical realism but still fall short on task
diversity. To enrich task variety, several works
have explored language-conditioned tasks (Zeng
et al., 2021; James et al., 2020b; Mees et al., 2022).
AnomalyGen focuses on constructing household
anomaly scenes, which is an area that has not been
covered in previous work.

3

diverse hazard scenarios daily. For example, a parent may focus on child safety, noticing hazards like
sharp objects or unlocked cabinets, while a household maintenance worker may be more attuned to
issues like electrical faults or fire hazards. Our
role-play list includes roles such as homemaker,
household safety advisor, and educational consultant, with the full list in the Appendix B.1. Based
on their assigned role, each agent randomly selects a target object from an anomalous household asset list and proposes an initial anomaly scenario based on that object. This anomalous object list was curated from a subset of the PartNet
Mobility dataset (Xiang et al., 2020; Wang et al.,
2023b). The detailed categories and directory of
these anomalous object assets can be found in the
Appendix A.
Brainstorming Stage. After each agent proposes its initial anomaly scenario, we facilitate
multiple rounds of discussion to foster meaningful
exchanges of ideas among the LLM agents. Each
agent takes the outputs from other agents in the
previous rounds, combines them with its own character and thoughts, and proposes new tasks. Each
agent is informed that they are part of a collaborative brainstorming session, where teamwork and
diverse perspectives are key to generating creative
and comprehensive hazard scenarios. The detailed
prompt can be found in Appendix B.2
For instance, as shown in Figure 2, the "gardener" and "engineer" agents propose a scenario
where sharp tools left on a wet floor and exposed
electrical wires near water pose significant safety
risks. Motivated by the sharp tools mentioned by
the gardener and the electrical hazards raised by the
engineer, the "homemaker" suggests that leaving
kitchen appliances plugged in near the sink could
also lead to electrocution, expanding on the dangers of water-related hazards in the home. This
iterative dialogue mimics human brainstorming,
where participants build on each other’s ideas for
more creative and comprehensive outcomes. By encouraging LLM agents to collaborate, we achieve
greater variety and depth in the generated anomaly
scenarios.

Method

In this section, we demonstrate how our framework
utilizes advanced generative models to automatically create anomalous scenarios and task-related
data, as shown in Figure 2.
3.1

Brainstormed Anamoly Task Proposal

The most intuitive way to obtain anomaly scenarios would be to prompt an LLM to generate a list.
However, in our preliminary experiments, the LLM
tends to generate repetitive and lackluster scenarios,
such as "move the scissors to a drawer", "put the
scissors into the box" and "store scissors safely."
This lack of diversity limits the range of potential
hazards, resulting in scenarios that are too similar
to each other.
To address this, we propose group brainstorming,
a round-based divergent thinking framework that
allows multiple agents to build upon each other’s
ideas. We also incorporate role-playing, where
each agent adopts a unique perspective, encouraging a broader range of creative thoughts. This
collaborative process not only enhances the variety of scenarios but also improves the realism and
complexity of the generated anomalies.
Role-play Initialization Stage. To ensure that
each agent considers different perspectives and approaches the task from various angles, we assign
distinct roles to each agent. This is especially useful in households, where different professions face

3.2

3D Anomalous Scenarios Generation

The brainstormed ideas above are textual descriptions of the scenario, and our next step is to turn
the text into vivid 3D environments.
Auxiliary 3D Assets Retrieval. In the previous
section, we compiled a list of 3D anomaly assets
3

Exposed electrical wires
near water sources pose a
risk of electrocution.

Task Proposal
Scene Configuration

Engineer

Group
×!
Brainstorming

Homemaker

LLM
Retrieve

Gardener

Leaving sharp tools on a
wet floor could cause
someone to slip and get
injured.

Assets Description

Asset Size

Asset Statement

World Coordinate

Spatial Relationship

Robot Type

Motivated by the risk of sharp
tools and electrical hazards,
leaving kitchen appliances
plugged in near the sink could
also lead to electrocution.

Task Proposal

Auxiliary 3D Assets

(a)

(b)

Scene Description

Assets
Description

World
Coordinate

Spatial
Relationship

Scene state

LLM

Anomaly Detect

Grasp the refrigerator door

Problems:
Spoiled milk in the refrigerator
may contaminate other foods.

Open the refrigerator door
Grasp the cup of spoiled milk
Move the spoiled milk to the ashcan
Release the grasp of the spoiled food

Solution:
Throw the spoiled milk in the
trash.

Close the refrigerator door

Select

Reinforcement Learning
Motion Planning

(c)

Figure 2: AnomalyGen includes 3 modules: a) Group Brainstorming, b) Anomalous Scenarios Generation, c)
Proactive Anomaly Detection and Anomaly Task Learning.

that serve as target objects for the robots to manipulate. However, to realistically simulate real-world
scenarios, focusing only on these target objects is
not enough. We also need auxiliary surrounding objects to construct realistic environments that mimic
real-world object distributions. A straightforward
approach to select these surrounding objects is to
source them from Objaverse (Deitke et al., 2023).
However, this dataset is extensive, containing up to
800K items, and the item names are often too short
or duplicated, making selection challenging.
To address this, we first query LLM to generate names and descriptions of objects relevant to
the anomalous task, from a textual perspective.
We then employ Sentence-BERT (Reimers and
Gurevych, 2019) to retrieve the top-k textually similar 3D assets from the Objaverse list based on
these descriptions. From a visual perspective, we
further validate the selection by using a VLM. The
VLM takes the task name, detailed task description,
and the assets annotations as input. It then determines whether the scene is valid and outputs "yes"
to confirm alignment between the task description
and the scene setup.
In this way, we compile a high-quality list of relevant 3D assets that undergo dual validation through
both textual and visual steps.
Asset Configuration. Assets configuration ensures that the retrieved 3D assets have physically

plausible dimensions. To automate this process, we
employ LLM to determine the size of each asset.
The size of each object is calculated as a scalar
value in meters, representing its largest dimension.
In addition, we establish spatial relationship rules,
where objects with relative size relationships must
satisfy specific task requirements. For example,
in a scenario where a "bowl of soup" needs to be
placed inside a microwave, if the bowl’s size is
0.15 meters, the microwave must have a dimension
larger than 0.15 meters to accommodate it. We also
define initial state rules, ensuring that objects are
in the appropriate state for the task. For example,
for the task "turn off faucet," the faucet must be
initialized in the "on" state to accurately simulate
the conditions necessary for the task’s execution.
Scene Configuration. After configuring the assets, the final step is to position them accurately
while maintaining appropriate spatial relations. To
achieve precise placement, we query an LLM to
establish a 3D world coordinate system (x, y, z).
Target assets required for specific tasks are strategically placed within the constrained space of
(0, 0, 0) to (1, 1, 1), while auxiliary assets not involved in the current task are positioned outside
this specified range.
We will demonstrate through human evaluation
in §5.4 that the environment constructed in this
manner is of high quality.
4

3.3

Proactive Anomaly Detection

accessible to the LLM. In contrast, for tasks involving soft body manipulation, the reward functions
are based on the earth-mover distance between the
particles of the current and target shapes, ensuring
precise shape matching. To simplify object grasping and approaching action in action primitives
subtasks, we use a robot equipped with a suction
cup. This setup streamlines the process of grasping.
The simplified pseudo-algorithm for the grasping
and approaching primitives is in Appendix C.1.

Although existing research extensively explores
ways to enhance a robot’s ability to follow instructions, a key limitation is their inability to actively
detect anomalies or dangerous situations in daily
life (Fan et al., 2024), an ability that is crucial for
ensuring safety in dynamic environments (Lundström et al., 2015; Wang et al., 2023b). In our simulated 3D environment, we aim to enable household
robots to proactively detect hazards or anomalies
and acquire the necessary skills to solve tasks related to these anomalies. Concretely, AnomalyGen
employs an LLM to analyze and identify potential
problems. The input for the LLM includes outputs
from the previous steps, including the target object,
retrieved assets, their configurations, and the overall scene setup. Note that LLM has no access to the
task name and description, but only infers the potential task based on the environment observation.
Based on this information, the LLM is prompted to
generate possible problems that need to be solved
and their solutions. For example, a problem could
be that a folding knife on the table may cause cuts
or injuries, and the solution would be to store the
folding knife in a storage box.
3.4

4

Experiment Setup

4.1

Implementation Details

Our proposed system is generic and agnostic to
specific simulation platforms. However, considering the broad audience for simulation platforms, as
following (Wang et al., 2023b; Kant et al., 2022;
Gu et al., 2023; Shridhar et al., 2020b; Savva et al.,
2019). we choose Genesis (Katara et al., 2023),
the most widely employed simulation platform for
deployment. The model itself is general-purpose
and independent of any specific simulation platform. We employ the state-of-the-art GPT-4-0314
LLM and BLIP-2 (Li et al., 2023b) VLM by default. For anomaly task learning, we utilize the
Soft Actor-Critic (SAC) (Haarnoja et al., 2018) as
the reinforcement learning algorithm, employing
learning rate 3e − 4 for the actor, the critic, and the
entropy regularizer. The horizon of manipulation
sub-tasks is 100, with a frameskip of 2. For each
sub-task, we train with 1M environment steps. We
also employ Batch Informed Trees (Gammell et al.,
2015) as the motion planning algorithm. More
details are in the Appendix C.2.

Anomaly Task Learning

After confirming the task to be completed, AnomalyGen queries the LLM to decompose the detected
solution into shorter-horizon sub-tasks, as illustrated in the bottom part of Figure 2.
Then, different learning algorithms are selected,
tailored to different subtasks: reinforcement learning (Schulman et al., 2017; Haarnoja et al., 2023)
and action primitives with motion planning (Karaman and Frazzoli, 2011). Each algorithm has its
strengths: Reinforcement learning is ideal for dynamic, contact-rich environments, like legged locomotion or adjusting appliance controls, and Action
primitives with motion planning handle navigation
through cluttered environments, ensuring safe and
efficient paths. We introduce the strengths of each
algorithm and provide three examples of actionalgorithm pairs to the LLM, enabling it to select
the most appropriate learning algorithm for each
subtask by in-context learning.
Meanwhile, for subtasks trained using reinforcement learning, the LLM is responsible for generating the corresponding reward functions. For tasks
involving rigid manipulation and locomotion, these
reward functions are derived from low-level states

4.2

Baselines

We compare our constructed environment with
the latest benchmark environments, including RLBench (James et al., 2020a), which encompasses
100 distinct, meticulously crafted tasks, ranging in complexity from basic tasks like targetreaching and door-opening to more advanced,
multi-step tasks. ManiSkill2 (Gu et al., 2023)
includes 20 manipulation task families which
cover stationary/mobile-base, single/dual-arm, and
rigid/soft-body manipulation tasks with 2D/3Dinput data. Meta-World (Yu et al., 2020), serves as
a benchmark specifically designed for evaluating
the performance of meta-reinforcement learning
and multitask learning algorithms. Behavior-100
(Li et al., 2023a) featuring 100 activities within
5

Number of Tasks
Task Description - Self-BLEU ↓
Task Description - SentenceBert ↓
Scene Image - Embedding Similarity (ViT) ↓
Scene Image - Embedding Similarity (CLIP) ↓

AnomalyGen

RoboGen

Behavior-100

RLbench

MetaWorld

Maniskill2

GenSim

111
0.227
0.245
0.315
0.805

106
0.287
0.394
0.353
0.824

100
0.299
0.210
0.389
0.833

106
0.317
0.200
0.375
0.864

50
0.322
0.263
0.517
0.867

20
0.674
0.194
0.332
0.828

70
0.378
0.288
0.717
0.932

Table 1: Task diversity comparison with leading human-designed robotics datasets, including Behavior-100,
RLBench, MetaWorld, Maniskill2, and GenSim.

simulated environments. These activities encompass a variety of routine household tasks, including
cleaning, maintenance, and food preparation. GenSim (Wang et al., 2023a) offers 100 robotic arm
grasping scenarios, all set on a tabletop environment. RoboGen (Wang et al., 2023b) has generated
106 more diverse tasks, further expanding them to
accommodate a wider range of robotic arm types.
Note that RoboGen doesn’t release its constructed
dataset; therefore, we reimplement RoboGen based
on the provided code.

4.3

5

Results and Analysis

5.1

Anomaly Task Statistics

Through our group brainstorming component, we
can theoretically generate an unlimited number of
diverse tasks. To facilitate the evaluation process,
we limited the number of evaluated scenes to 111.
These scenes are categorized into three general categories: household hazards, hygiene management,
and child safety. Each category includes diverse
tasks, as visualized in Figure 4, where "store sharp
objects safely" represents the largest proportion of
tasks at 28.8%, followed by other critical tasks such
as "reduce tripping hazards" and "manage chemical risks," all of which represent common dangers
encountered in real life. Note that no human intervention was involved in the entire design process,
so the distribution of tasks is the result of fully
autonomous generation by our model.

Evaluation Metrics

We first evaluate the diversity of the generated
anomaly task settings, including the semantic aspects of the tasks and the visual aspects of the
scenes. For semantic view, we concatenate the task
name and description from each anomalous task
and calculate their similarity by Self-BLEU (Papineni et al., 2002) and SentenceBERT (Reimers
and Gurevych, 2019) for quantitative analysis. For
scene visual information, we assess scene diversity
by measuring the embedding similarity of unrendered images of the scene from the initial camera
state. Specifically, we utilize ImageNet pre-trained
Vision Transformer (ViT) (Dosovitskiy et al., 2020)
and CLIP models (Radford et al., 2021).

5.2

Anomaly Task Diversity

In Table 1, we show the diversity of our model
and baselines on the constructed anomalies task
from both text and visual perspectives. It can be
seen that our model achieves the lowest Self-BLEU
and SentenceBERT similarity scores for text, as
well as the lowest ViT and CLIP scores for visuals,
indicating that our framework surpasses previous
manually constructed benchmarks and datasets.
Group Brainstorming Ablation. To demonstrate that the diversity described above is due to
our group brainstorming setting rather than the
LLM’s inherent abilities, we conduct an ablation
study. The first setting removes both the brainstorming and role-play components introduced
in §3.1, directly querying LLM to generate task
proposals. The second setting incorporates roleplaying, where we provide the role settings in the
prompt and query LLM to propose tasks from the
perspective of the assigned character. To comprehensively evaluate the generation ability, we generate 300 anomalous task proposals. Concretely,
we use identical query parameters for both ex-

Next, we assess whether the robot can proactively and accurately detect anomaly scenarios. We
employ three undergraduate students specializing
in computer-related fields to determine whether
the task detected by the anomaly detection module
aligns with the ground truth task.
Finally, the annotators review task action videos
to determine whether the task is successfully completed and evaluate the overall success rate of task
completion. Note that even if the detected tasks do
not fully align with the designed tasks in the task
proposal, evaluations are still based on the detected
tasks, as these tasks possess a certain degree of
rationality, as explained in §5.3.
6

AnomalyGen Self-Detect instruction: Move the kitchen knife to a safe box

Approach the knife

Start

Grasp the knife

Move it in box

Release the knife

Close the box

Timeline

AnomalyGen Self-Detect instruction: Throw hazardous waste into the trash can

Start

Approach the garbage

Grasp the waste

Put garbage in ashcan

Release the garbage

Stop

Timeline

AnomalyGen Self-Detect instruction: Put the medicine bottle on a safe desktop

Catch the medicine

Start

Move it to table

Put down it on table

Straighten the medicine

Stop

Timeline

AnomalyGen Self-Detect instruction: Push the items at the edge of the table back
Close the washing
machine door
Start

Approach microwave oven

Push it in table

Stop

timeline

Figure 3: Snapshots of the learned skills across 4 exemplary long-horizon sequential tasks and 1 single-step task.
2.7%

Method
w/o brainstorming & role-play
w/o brainstorming
AnomalyGen

10.8%

18.9%

Self-BLEU (↓)

SentenceBERT (↓)

WMD (↓)

0.217
0.225
0.043

0.553
0.551
0.393

0.618
0.605
0.511

9.0%

Table 2: Ablation experiment results on group brainstorming and role-play. Lower values indicate better
performance across all metrics.

7.2%
28.8%
6.3%

2.7%

8.1%
4.5%
0.9%

in Self-BLEU, 0.158 decrease in SentenceBERT,
and 0.107 decrease in WMD. This demonstrates
that the combination of brainstorming and role-play
significantly enhances the model’s performance by
promoting better alignment and understanding, as
reflected in the lower values across all metrics.

Figure 4: Distribution of types of anomalous scenarios.
The red color represents "Household Hazards," the blue
color denotes "Hygiene Management," and the green
color denotes "Child Safety Measures."

5.3
periments and randomly selected 10 assets as targets. Each method is run 10 times, generating
10 task proposals per iteration. We employ SelfBLEU, SentenceBERT, and Word Mover’s Distance (WMD) (Huang et al., 2016) for evaluation.

Anomaly Detection Performance

For the anomaly detection task, we allow AnomalyGen to come up with up to three solutions, and
manually evaluate the hit accuracy for k solutions.
As shown in Table 3, our model generally achieves
high performance, with 76% accuracy on the first
attempt and 82% accuracy when given three attempts. This demonstrates the effectiveness of
the prompt we design for AnomalyGen to correctly identify the task, as well as the validity of
our constructed simulation environment, where the
anomaly scenes can be accurately detected.
In addition, we conduct an error analysis on the

The experiment results are presented in Table 2.
It can be seen that with role-play, the SentenceBERT and WMD scores decrease by 0.002 and
0.007, respectively, compared to the naive LLM
approach. Then, brainstorming brings the greatest
contribution, leading to the largest improvement
across all three metrics, including a 0.182 decrease
7

Success Rate

1.0
0.5

0.88

0.81

1.00

0.75

0.86

0.78

1.00
0.68

0.80

0.83

0.67

0.0

l
s
s
s
s
e
n
d
g
ld
ecftely ippinrds emicasks poileood e opeors r fromoor room bjectren bjecting
j
larigture usehoions
b
n
i
r
l
t
s
o
o
o
e
k
s
a
f
d
f
t
r
h
s
e
t
t
a
e
p s ce haz e c
of
Clofrigera up lit the ntilat sharpm chilsmalle choazasred op furn re hoedica
u
g
har
se
d
a
s
o
s
u
h
e
e
n
o
e
k
o
e
p
o
e
p
l
V
r Pic
r
R
r
C
Ma
Sec m
Dis
Keeway f emotvhat p
Sto
a R
Figure 5: Anomaly resolution completion rate across different categories.

k Solutions

Success Rate

1
2
3

0.759
0.804
0.821

We also conduct an error analysis and summarize two main reasons for task failure. First, there
is an overlap of scene assets. In the verification
step described in §3.2, we employ VLMs to verify
that the assets are correctly positioned. However,
there are 4 out of 111 instances where the VLMs
fail to identify mispositioned items and incorrectly
approve them. For example, when the mispositioned items are both white, accurate identification
becomes more difficult. The misposition problem
exists in other environments (Wang et al., 2023b),
and we anticipate that advancements in VLM technology will address this limitation. Second, some
tasks proposed by AnomalyGen include complex,
multi-step actions that challenge the capabilities of
current algorithms, making it difficult for them to
perform effectively. We expect that improvements
in learning algorithms will enable robots to better learn from their environments and handle more
complex tasks in the future.

Table 3: Anomaly detection success rate with k solutions.

failed tasks. We find that the main reason for failure
was that our environment closely mirrors real-life
scenarios, including a variety of everyday clutter,
which mislead the LLM into making incorrect detections. Meanwhile, we note that the tasks proposed by the detection module still possess a degree of rationality. For instance, while the ground
truth involves picking up a pill from the floor and
placing it on a table, our detection module instead
proposes to discard it. Although this action does
not align with the specified ground truth, the alternative task remains meaningful, as discarding a
potentially misplaced pill could also be seen as a
reasonable safety precaution.
5.4

6

Anomaly Solution Performance

Conclusion

In this study, we present AnomalyGen, an innovative framework designed to enhance the proactive detection and resolution of household anomalies by robots. Our approach integrates advanced
generative models to automatically create diverse
and realistic 3D environments, which are essential for training robots to handle real-world tasks
autonomously. We also propose a group brainstorming method, which generates a wide variety of anomalous scenarios, surpassing traditional
methods that rely heavily on manual input. Furthermore, the AnomalyGen framework introduces
a novel approach to anomaly detection, offering
potential strategies for enabling robots to act without direct human commands. We hope our work
will inspire further exploration into autonomous
decision-making in real-world applications.

Lastly, we can evaluate the performance of overall
task performance. We first give some examples of
the task execution process in Figure 3, including
multi-step tasks, such as placing a medicine bottle on a safe desktop, and single-step tasks, such
as closing the washing machine door. It can be
observed that the model successfully follows the
instructions and completes tasks of varying complexity and time steps.
Next, we conduct a quantitative analysis of the
anomaly resolution accuracy, using human evaluations to assess the completion rate across different
categories, as in Figure 5. Among the 111 generated anomalous scenarios, the average success rate
for resolving these tasks was 83%, highlighting
AnomalyGen’s strong execution performance.
8

7

Limitation

Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 13142–13153.

While AnomalyGen has achieved certain milestones, it still encounters several limitations:
1) In unsupervised settings, the validation of
tasks within generated anomaly scenarios remains
challenging, with a potential for scenarios that
clearly do not meet task requirements. This issue is particularly exacerbated under conditions of
large-scale generation. However, with future enhancements in the capabilities of multimodal large
language models, we anticipate that this limitation
will be addressed.
2) The richness of the generated scenes is currently somewhat constrained by the scale of the 3D
assets dataset. A limited dataset size may curtail
the full potential of AnomalyGen.
3) Regarding the deployment of AnomalyGen
into real-world applications, there remains a significant sim-to-real domain gap. This gap constitutes
an independent research domain that is beyond the
scope of our current work. Given recent rapid advancements in physically accurate simulation (Li
et al., 2020) and techniques such as domain adaptation (Tobin et al., 2017; Xu et al., 2023; Xiao et al.,
2024) along with realistic sensory signal rendering
(Zhuang et al., 2023), we anticipate a continual
narrowing of this gap in the near future.

Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander
Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai,
Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias
Minderer, Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, et al. 2020.
An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers
for image recognition at scale. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2010.11929.
Danny Driess, Fei Xia, Mehdi SM Sajjadi, Corey Lynch,
Aakanksha Chowdhery, Brian Ichter, Ayzaan Wahid,
Jonathan Tompson, Quan Vuong, Tianhe Yu, et al.
2023. Palm-e: An embodied multimodal language
model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.03378.
Yilun Du, Mengjiao Yang, Bo Dai, Hanjun Dai, Ofir
Nachum, Josh Tenenbaum, Dale Schuurmans, and
Pieter Abbeel. 2023. Learning universal policies
via text-guided video generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.00111.
Haolin Fan, Xuan Liu, Jerry Ying Hsi Fuh, Wen Feng
Lu, and Bingbing Li. 2024. Embodied intelligence
in manufacturing: leveraging large language models for autonomous industrial robotics. Journal of
Intelligent Manufacturing, pages 1–17.
Haoyuan Fu, Wenqiang Xu, Han Xue, Huinan Yang,
Ruolin Ye, Yongxi Huang, Zhendong Xue, Yanfeng Wang, and Cewu Lu. 2022. Rfuniverse:
A physics-based action-centric interactive environment for everyday household tasks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2202.00199.
Jonathan D Gammell, Siddhartha S Srinivasa, and Timothy D Barfoot. 2015. Batch informed trees (bit*):
Sampling-based optimal planning via the heuristically guided search of implicit random geometric
graphs. In 2015 IEEE international conference on
robotics and automation (ICRA), pages 3067–3074.
IEEE.

References
Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Yevgen
Chebotar, Omar Cortes, Byron David, Chelsea Finn,
Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex
Herzog, et al. 2022. Do as i can, not as i say: Grounding language in robotic affordances. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2204.01691.

Chuang Gan, Siyuan Zhou, Jeremy Schwartz, Seth Alter,
Abhishek Bhandwaldar, Dan Gutfreund, Daniel LK
Yamins, James J DiCarlo, Josh McDermott, Antonio
Torralba, et al. 2022. The threedworld transport challenge: A visually guided task-and-motion planning
benchmark towards physically realistic embodied ai.

Marty Ahrens. 2020. Home cooking fires.
Dhruv Batra, Aaron Gokaslan, Aniruddha Kembhavi,
Oleksandr Maksymets, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Manolis
Savva, Alexander Toshev, and Erik Wijmans. 2020.
ObjectNav Revisited: On Evaluation of Embodied
Agents Navigating to Objects. In arXiv:2006.13171.

Rohit Girdhar, Alaaeldin El-Nouby, Zhuang Liu, Mannat Singh, Kalyan Vasudev Alwala, Armand Joulin,
and Ishan Misra. 2023. Imagebind: One embedding space to bind them all. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.05665.

Rizhao Cai, Zirui Song, Dayan Guan, Zhenhao
Chen, Xing Luo, Chenyu Yi, and Alex Kot. 2023.
Benchlmm: Benchmarking cross-style visual capability of large multimodal models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.02896.

Jiayuan Gu, Fanbo Xiang, Xuanlin Li, Zhan Ling,
Xiqiang Liu, Tongzhou Mu, Yihe Tang, Stone Tao,
Xinyue Wei, Yunchao Yao, et al. 2023. Maniskill2:
A unified benchmark for generalizable manipulation
skills. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04659.

Matt Deitke, Dustin Schwenk, Jordi Salvador, Luca
Weihs, Oscar Michel, Eli VanderBilt, Ludwig
Schmidt, Kiana Ehsani, Aniruddha Kembhavi, and
Ali Farhadi. 2023. Objaverse: A universe of annotated 3d objects. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF

Huy Ha, Pete Florence, and Shuran Song. 2023. Scaling
up and distilling down: Language-guided robot skill
acquisition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.14535.

9

Tuomas Haarnoja, Ben Moran, Guy Lever, Sandy H
Huang, Dhruva Tirumala, Markus Wulfmeier, Jan
Humplik, Saran Tunyasuvunakool, Noah Y Siegel,
Roland Hafner, et al. 2023. Learning agile soccer
skills for a bipedal robot with deep reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13653.

of everyday household tasks. In Conference in Robot
Learning (CoRL), page accepted.
Chengshu Li, Ruohan Zhang, Josiah Wong, Cem Gokmen, Sanjana Srivastava, Roberto Martín-Martín,
Chen Wang, Gabrael Levine, Michael Lingelbach,
Jiankai Sun, et al. 2023a. Behavior-1k: A benchmark
for embodied ai with 1,000 everyday activities and realistic simulation. In Conference on Robot Learning,
pages 80–93. PMLR.

Tuomas Haarnoja, Aurick Zhou, Pieter Abbeel, and
Sergey Levine. 2018. Soft actor-critic: Off-policy
maximum entropy deep reinforcement learning with
a stochastic actor. In International conference on
machine learning, pages 1861–1870. PMLR.

Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Hoi.
2023b. Blip-2: Bootstrapping language-image pretraining with frozen image encoders and large language models. In International conference on machine learning, pages 19730–19742. PMLR.

Gao Huang, Chuan Guo, Matt J Kusner, Yu Sun, Fei Sha,
and Kilian Q Weinberger. 2016. Supervised word
mover’s distance. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 29.

Minchen Li, Zachary Ferguson, Teseo Schneider, Timothy R Langlois, Denis Zorin, Daniele Panozzo, Chenfanfu Jiang, and Danny M Kaufman. 2020. Incremental potential contact: intersection-and inversion-free,
large-deformation dynamics. ACM Trans. Graph.,
39(4):49.

Wenlong Huang, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Harris Chan, Jacky
Liang, Pete Florence, Andy Zeng, Jonathan Tompson, Igor Mordatch, Yevgen Chebotar, et al. 2022.
Inner monologue: Embodied reasoning through
planning with language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2207.05608.

Kevin Lin, Christopher Agia, Toki Migimatsu, Marco
Pavone, and Jeannette Bohg. 2023. Text2motion:
From natural language instructions to feasible plans.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.12153.

Kent P Hymel et al. 2006. When is lack of supervision
neglect? Pediatrics, 118(3):1296–1298.
Stephen James, Zicong Ma, David Rovick Arrojo, and
Andrew J Davison. 2020a. Rlbench: The robot
learning benchmark & learning environment. IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters, 5(2):3019–3026.

Xingyu Lin, Yufei Wang, Jake Olkin, and David Held.
2021. Softgym: Benchmarking deep reinforcement
learning for deformable object manipulation.

Stephen James, Zicong Ma, David Rovick Arrojo, and
Andrew J. Davison. 2020b. Rlbench: The robot learning benchmark & learning environment.

Haohe Liu, Zehua Chen, Yi Yuan, Xinhao Mei, Xubo
Liu, Danilo Mandic, Wenwu Wang, and Mark D
Plumbley. 2023. Audioldm: Text-to-audio generation with latent diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2301.12503.

Yash Kant, Arun Ramachandran, Sriram Yenamandra,
Igor Gilitschenski, Dhruv Batra, Andrew Szot, and
Harsh Agrawal. 2022. Housekeep: Tidying virtual
households using commonsense reasoning. Preprint,
arXiv:2205.10712.

Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Yuheng Li, and Yong Jae
Lee. 2024a. Improved baselines with visual instruction tuning. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 26296–26306.

Sertac Karaman and Emilio Frazzoli. 2011. Samplingbased algorithms for optimal motion planning. The
international journal of robotics research, 30(7):846–
894.

Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae
Lee. 2024b. Visual instruction tuning. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 36.

Pushkal Katara, Zhou Xian, and Katerina Fragkiadaki.
2023. Gen2sim: Scaling up robot learning in simulation with generative models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.18308.

Jens Lundström, W Ourique De Morais, and Martin
Cooney. 2015. A holistic smart home demonstrator for anomaly detection and response. In 2015
IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communication Workshops (PerCom Workshops), pages 330–335. IEEE.

Chengshu Li, Fei Xia, Roberto Martín-Martín, Michael
Lingelbach, Sanjana Srivastava, Bokui Shen, Kent
Vainio, Cem Gokmen, Gokul Dharan, Tanish Jain,
et al. 2021a. igibson 2.0: Object-centric simulation
for robot learning of everyday household tasks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2108.03272.

Yecheng Jason Ma, William Liang, Guanzhi Wang, DeAn Huang, Osbert Bastani, Dinesh Jayaraman, Yuke
Zhu, Linxi Fan, and Anima Anandkumar. 2023. Eureka: Human-level reward design via coding large
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.12931.

Chengshu Li, Fei Xia, Roberto Martín-Martín, Michael
Lingelbach, Sanjana Srivastava, Bokui Shen, Kent
Vainio, Cem Gokmen, Gokul Dharan, Tanish Jain,
Andrey Kurenkov, Karen Liu, Hyowon Gweon, Jiajun Wu, Li Fei-Fei, and Silvio Savarese. 2021b. igibson 2.0: Object-centric simulation for robot learning

Arjun Majumdar, Anurag Ajay, Xiaohan Zhang, Pranav
Putta, Sriram Yenamandra, Mikael Henaff, Sneha
Silwal, Paul Mcvay, Oleksandr Maksymets, Sergio
Arnaud, et al. 2024. Openeqa: Embodied question

10

answering in the era of foundation models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 16488–16498.

benchmark for interpreting grounded instructions for
everyday tasks.
Mohit Shridhar, Jesse Thomason, Daniel Gordon,
Yonatan Bisk, Winson Han, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Luke
Zettlemoyer, and Dieter Fox. 2020b. Alfred: A
benchmark for interpreting grounded instructions for
everyday tasks. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pages 10740–10749.

Oier Mees, Lukas Hermann, Erick Rosete-Beas, and
Wolfram Burgard. 2022. Calvin: A benchmark
for language-conditioned policy learning for longhorizon robot manipulation tasks.
Luke Melas-Kyriazi, Christian Rupprecht, Iro Laina,
and Andrea Vedaldi. 2023. Realfusion: 360 {\deg}
reconstruction of any object from a single image.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.10663.

Sanjana Srivastava, Chengshu Li, Michael Lingelbach,
Roberto Martín-Martín, Fei Xia, Kent Vainio, Zheng
Lian, Cem Gokmen, Shyamal Buch, Karen Liu, Silvio Savarese, Hyowon Gweon, Jiajun Wu, and Li FeiFei. 2021. Behavior: Benchmark for everyday household activities in virtual, interactive, and ecological environments. In Conference in Robot Learning
(CoRL), page accepted.

James F. Mullen, Prasoon Goyal, Robinson Piramuthu, Michael Johnston, Dinesh Manocha, and
Reza Ghanadan. 2024. “don’t forget to put the milk
back!” dataset for enabling embodied agents to detect
anomalous situations. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 9(10):9087–9094.

Ioan A Sucan, Mark Moll, and Lydia E Kavraki. 2012.
The open motion planning library. IEEE Robotics &
Automation Magazine, 19(4):72–82.

OpenAI. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.08774.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and WeiJing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the
40th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 311–318.

Josh Tobin, Rachel Fong, Alex Ray, Jonas Schneider,
Wojciech Zaremba, and Pieter Abbeel. 2017. Domain randomization for transferring deep neural networks from simulation to the real world. In 2017
IEEE/RSJ international conference on intelligent
robots and systems (IROS), pages 23–30. IEEE.

Ben Poole, Ajay Jain, Jonathan T Barron, and Ben
Mildenhall. 2022. Dreamfusion: Text-to-3d using 2d
diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.14988.

Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier
Martinet, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix,
Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro,
Faisal Azhar, et al. 2023. Llama: Open and efficient foundation language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.13971.

Xavier Puig, Kevin Ra, Marko Boben, Jiaman Li,
Tingwu Wang, Sanja Fidler, and Antonio Torralba.
2018. Virtualhome: Simulating household activities
via programs.

Lirui Wang, Yiyang Ling, Zhecheng Yuan, Mohit Shridhar, Chen Bao, Yuzhe Qin, Bailin Wang, Huazhe Xu,
and Xiaolong Wang. 2023a. Gensim: Generating
robotic simulation tasks via large language models.
In Arxiv.

Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark,
et al. 2021. Learning transferable visual models from
natural language supervision. In International conference on machine learning, pages 8748–8763. PMLR.

Yufei Wang, Zhou Xian, Feng Chen, Tsun-Hsuan Wang,
Yian Wang, Katerina Fragkiadaki, Zackory Erickson,
David Held, and Chuang Gan. 2023b. Robogen:
Towards unleashing infinite data for automated robot
learning via generative simulation. ICML.

Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-bert:
Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.10084.
Manolis Savva, Abhishek Kadian, Oleksandr
Maksymets, Yili Zhao, Erik Wijmans, Bhavana
Jain, Julian Straub, Jia Liu, Vladlen Koltun, Jitendra
Malik, et al. 2019. Habitat: A platform for embodied
ai research. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
international conference on computer vision, pages
9339–9347.

Bret C Williams and Jonathan B Kotch. 2023. Child injury and mortality: America’s children report. ChildStats.gov.
Safe kids Worldwide. 2022. National parent survey on
child injury.

John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal,
Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. 2017. Proximal policy optimization algorithms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1707.06347.

Jimmy Wu, Rika Antonova, Adam Kan, Marion Lepert, Andy Zeng, Shuran Song, Jeannette Bohg, Szymon Rusinkiewicz, and Thomas Funkhouser. 2023.
Tidybot: Personalized robot assistance with large
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.05658.

Mohit Shridhar, Jesse Thomason, Daniel Gordon,
Yonatan Bisk, Winson Han, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Luke
Zettlemoyer, and Dieter Fox. 2020a. Alfred: A

Fanbo Xiang, Yuzhe Qin, Kaichun Mo, Yikuan Xia,
Hao Zhu, Fangchen Liu, Minghua Liu, Hanxiao
Jiang, Yifu Yuan, He Wang, Li Yi, Angel X. Chang,

11

Leonidas J. Guibas, and Hao Su. 2020. SAPIEN: A
simulated part-based interactive environment. In The
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR).

Brainstorming Setting

B.1

Role List

In this section, we provide a detailed list of roles
that are commonly found within a household setting, each accompanied by a specific role description. These roles encompass a variety of responsibilities and skills required to efficiently manage and
maintain a home environment. Table 5 outlines the
diverse roles ranging from daily household management to specialized services that enhance the
functionality and comfort of home life.

Aoran Xiao, Jiaxing Huang, Kangcheng Liu, Dayan
Guan, Xiaoqin Zhang, and Shijian Lu. 2024. Domain
adaptive lidar point cloud segmentation via densityaware self-training. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems, 25(10):13627–13639.
Zhenjia Xu, Zhou Xian, Xingyu Lin, Cheng Chi, Zhiao
Huang, Chuang Gan, and Shuran Song. 2023. Roboninja: Learning an adaptive cutting policy for multimaterial objects. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.11553.

B.2

Yijun Yang, Tianyi Zhou, Kanxue Li, Dapeng Tao, Lusong Li, Li Shen, Xiaodong He, Jing Jiang, and
Yuhui Shi. 2024. Embodied multi-modal agent
trained by an llm from a parallel textworld. Preprint,
arXiv:2311.16714.

Detail Prompt

We show our prompt template in Figure 6. The
prompt outlines a brainstorming session focused
on generating home safety tasks for the Franka
Panda robotic arm, taking into account the articulated, semantically tagged movable objects in a
household setting. These tasks are to be envisioned
in scenarios that may pose potential hazards or
unsanitary conditions within the home, which the
robot is equipped to handle. The tasks are categorized into three primary areas: household hazard,
hygiene management, and child safety measures.
Each task is to be formatted to include the task
name, an explanation, a description, any auxiliary
items required, and the articulations and their specific functions. The brainstorming context should
be collaborative, with a strong emphasis on the operational limits of the robotic arm, such as avoiding
complex assembly, disassembly, or cleaning tasks.
This ensures that the tasks are tailored to the robot’s
capabilities, focusing on practical and manageable
interventions in household environment.

Sriram Yenamandra, Arun Ramachandran, Karmesh Yadav, Austin Wang, Mukul Khanna, Theophile Gervet,
Tsung-Yen Yang, Vidhi Jain, Alexander William
Clegg, John Turner, Zsolt Kira, Manolis Savva, Angel Chang, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Dhruv Batra,
Roozbeh Mottaghi, Yonatan Bisk, and Chris Paxton.
2023. Homerobot: Open vocabulary mobile manipulation.
Tianhe Yu, Deirdre Quillen, Zhanpeng He, Ryan Julian,
Karol Hausman, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine.
2020. Meta-world: A benchmark and evaluation for
multi-task and meta reinforcement learning. In Conference on robot learning, pages 1094–1100. PMLR.
Wenhao Yu, Nimrod Gileadi, Chuyuan Fu, Sean Kirmani, Kuang-Huei Lee, Montse Gonzalez Arenas,
Hao-Tien Lewis Chiang, Tom Erez, Leonard Hasenclever, Jan Humplik, et al. 2023. Language to rewards for robotic skill synthesis. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.08647.
Andy Zeng, Pete Florence, Jonathan Tompson, Stefan
Welker, Jonathan Chien, Maria Attarian, Travis Armstrong, Ivan Krasin, Dan Duong, Vikas Sindhwani,
and Johnny Lee. 2021. Transporter networks: Rearranging the visual world for robotic manipulation.

C

Parameter Setting

C.1

Algorithm of Grasping and Approaching
Primitives

In designing a robotic manipulator equipped with
a suction cup to facilitate object grasping, the operational primitives for grasping and approaching
are outlined as follows: Initially, a random point
on the surface of the designated target object or
link is selected. Subsequently, a gripper pose is
calculated such that it aligns with the normal at
the sampled point. Motion planning algorithms are
then employed to devise a collision-free trajectory
to the predetermined gripper pose. Upon attaining this pose, the manipulator advances along the
normal vector until contact is established with the

Ziwen Zhuang, Zipeng Fu, Jianren Wang, Christopher
Atkeson, Soeren Schwertfeger, Chelsea Finn, and
Hang Zhao. 2023. Robot parkour learning. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2309.05665.

A

B

3D Assets Stats

We have compiled statistics regarding the types
and quantities of 3D assets extracted from PartNetMobility. The details are presented in Table 4. In
summary, our subset comprises 44 categories of
3D assets and a total of 2,193 individual 3D assets.

12

Figure 6: The prompt template of Brainstorming.

13

Type of item
Bottle
Box
Bucket
Camera
Cart
Chair
Clock
CoffeeMachine
Dishwasher
Dispenser
Display
Door
Eyeglasses
Fan
FoldingChair
Globe
Kettle
Keyboard
KitchenPot
Knife
Lamp
Laptop

Number of models
57
28
36
37
61
81
31
54
48
57
37
36
65
81
26
61
29
37
25
44
45
55

Type of item
Microwave
Mouse
Oven
Pen
Phone
Pliers
Printer
Refrigerator
Remote
Safe
Scissors
Stapler
StorageFurniture
Suitcase
Table
Toaster
Toilet
TrashCan
USB
WashingMachine
Window
Lighter

Number of models
16
14
30
48
18
25
29
44
49
30
47
23
346
24
101
25
69
70
51
17
58
28

Table 4: Detail categories and quantities of subset which select from PartNet-Mobility.

object. In this setup, AnomalyGen leverages LLM
to determine the specific target object for either
grasping or approaching, dependent on the given
subtask. We show the simplified pseudo-algorithm
in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1 Grasping and Approaching Primitives

C.2

1: Initialize:
2:
TargetObject: the object or link to be manipulated
3:
GripperPose: the pose of the robotic gripper
4: Procedure:
5:
Point p ← RandomSample(TargetObject)
6:
Vector n ← NormalAtPoint(TargetObject, p)
7:
GripperPose ← AlignWithNormal(GripperPose, n)
8:
Path path ← MotionPlanning(GripperPose)
9:
ExecutePath(path)
10:
while not ContactMade() do
11:
MoveAlongNormal(GripperPose, n)
12:
end while
13:
if ContactMade() then
14:
Grasp(TargetObject)
15:
end if

Skill Learning Parameter

For anomaly task learning, we employ SAC algorithm for reinforcement learning. In object manipulation tasks, the observation space includes the
low-level state of objects and the robot involved in
the task. The SAC utilizes MLP with three layers,
each having 256 units, for both the policy and Q
networks. We set a learning rate of 3e-4 for the
actor, critic, and entropy regularizer. Each manipulation task has a horizon of 100 steps and employs a frameskip of 2. The RL policy controls a
6-dimensional action space, where the first three
dimensions dictate the translation—either as delta
translation or target location—and the remaining
three dimensions specify the delta rotation, represented as a delta-axis angle in the gripper’s local
frame. We train each sub-task over 1 million environment steps.
14

For locomotion tasks, we apply the Cross Entropy Method (CEM) for skill learning, which has
proven more stable and efficient than traditional RL
approaches. We use a ground-truth simulator as the
dynamics model in CEM, focusing on optimizing
the joint angle values of the robot. The horizon for
locomotion tasks is set to 150, with frameskip of 4.
Additionally, we integrate BIT (Gammell et al.,
2015), implemented within the Open Motion Planning Library OMPL (Sucan et al., 2012), for action
primitives in motion planning. Specifically, for
grasping and approaching primitives, we begin by
sampling a surface point on the targeted object or
link. We then compute a gripper pose that aligns
the gripper’s y-axis with the normal of the sampled point. The pre-contact gripper pose is established 0.03 meters above the surface point along
the normal direction. Utilizing motion planning,
we identify a collision-free path to the target gripper pose, continuing the gripper’s movement along
the normal until contact is achieved.

D

Data Statistics

We present the categories and numbers of all generated scenes. Detailed statistics are in Table 6.

15

Role
Homemaker

Engineer

Gardener

Nutritionist

Personal Trainer

Financial Planner

Educational Consultant

Home Security Officer

Interior Designer

Household Advisor

Role Description
Responsible for managing household chores and daily life, acting
as the heart of the home. Skills include expert cooking, time
management, and budget control. The challenge lies in providing
the best quality of life on a limited budget.
Specializes in designing and maintaining home-use robots such
as cleaning robots or elder care robots. Skills in programming,
mechanical design, and AI. The challenge is developing robots
that integrate seamlessly into the home environment.
In charge of designing and maintaining the home garden. Knowledge in botany, creative design, and ecological maintenance. The
challenge is to create an aesthetically pleasing yet sustainable outdoor space.
Provides dietary advice and plans for family members. Expertise
in nutrition, food science, and health promotion. The challenge is
to balance various dietary restrictions and preferences.
Responsible for physical training and health management of family members. Skills in sports science, human physiology, and
motivational psychology. The challenge is to create personalized
fitness programs that accommodate varying fitness levels.
Manages family finances, providing investment and savings advice.
Knowledge in economics, market analysis, and risk management.
The challenge is ensuring financial security and future growth for
the family.
Supports children in the family with academic guidance and educational planning. Expertise in pedagogy, psychology, and curriculum design. The challenge is to adapt to different learning styles
and educational needs.
Responsible for family safety and handling emergencies. Skills in
security management, emergency response, and physical defense.
The challenge is to maintain security without compromising the
family’s freedom and comfort.
Optimizes the layout and design of the home to enhance living
experience. Skills in artistic design, spatial planning, and color
theory. The challenge is to create a functional and beautiful living
space within budget.
Provides comprehensive home management services from daily
cleaning to organizing special events. Skills in project management, customer service, and efficiency optimization. The challenge is ensuring all household activities run efficiently and seamlessly.

Table 5: Roles and Descriptions for Household-Based Role Play

16

Category
Household Hazards

Hygiene Management

Child Safety Measures

Class Name

Number

Store sharp objects safely
Reduce tripping hazards
Manage chemical risks
Dispose of spoiled food
Close open refrigerators
Pick up litter from the floor
Ventilate rooms
Keep sharp objects away from children
Remove objects that pose choking hazards
Close open large furniture (cabinets, dishwashers, etc.)
Secure household medications

21
32
1
5
9
7
3
8
10
12
3

Table 6: Household Hazards, Hygiene Management, and Child Safety Measures

17

