MMAC-Copilot: Multi-modal Agent Collaboration Copilot
Zirui Song1,2∗ Yaohang Li2 * Meng Fang4∗ Yanda Li2 Zhenhao Chen1
Yuan Huang3 Zhecheng Shi3 Xiuying Chen1 Ling Chen2
1 Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence
2

University of Technology Sydney
3
Northeastern University
4
University of Liverpool

arXiv:2404.18074v3 [cs.AI] 23 Mar 2025

Abstract
Large language model agents that interact with
PC applications often face limitations due to
their singular mode of interaction with realworld environments, leading to restricted versatility and frequent hallucinations. To address
this, we propose the Multi-Modal Agent Collaboration framework (MMAC-Copilot), a framework utilizes the collective expertise of diverse
agents to enhance interaction ability with application. The framework introduces a team
collaboration chain, enabling each participating agent to contribute insights based on their
specific domain knowledge, effectively reducing the hallucination associated with knowledge domain gaps. We evaluate MMACCopilot using the GAIA benchmark and our
newly introduced Visual Interaction Benchmark (VIBench). MMAC-Copilot achieved
exceptional performance on GAIA, with an
average improvement of 6.8% over existing
leading systems. VIBench focuses on nonAPI-interactable applications across various domains, including 3D gaming, recreation, and
office scenarios. It also demonstrated remarkable capability on VIBench. We hope this work
can inspire in this field and provide a more comprehensive assessment of Autonomous agents.
The anonymous Github is available at Anonymous Github

1

Introduction

Large Language Models (LLMs) (Achiam et al.,
2023; Anil et al., 2023; Anthropic, 2023; Driess
et al., 2023; Ouyang et al., 2022; Touvron et al.,
2023a,b) has demonstrated unprecedented capabilities to tackle complex tasks that require human-like
reasoning, decision-making, and collaborative efforts (Ding et al., 2023; Hao et al., 2023; Park et al.,
2023; Qian et al., 2023; Xi et al., 2023). Soon afterwards, Large Vision Models (LVMs) (Cai et al.,
2023; Li et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2023, 2024; Luo
* Equal contributions.

et al., 2023; Zhou et al., 2023a) expand beyond
traditional text-based processing by integrating a
visual dimension into LLMs. The applications of
LVMs have reached diverse domains, with one
notable example being their pivotal usage in autonomous agents (Wu et al., 2024).
Applying large language models (LLMs) in operating systems faces two primary challenges. First,
their ability to acquire real-world environmental information is constrained by reliance on a single text
modality, limiting the breadth of applications they
can effectively manage. Second, hallucinations
stemming from knowledge domain gaps can lead
to flawed planning by LLM agents, with potentially
severe consequences. Agents typically require both
a unified interaction interface and a high level of
generalization to adapt to the diverse and complex
range of applications within an operating system.
While previous works (Tan et al., 2024; Wu et al.,
2024; Zhang et al., 2024) have leveraged scripting
and LLMs’ planning abilities to achieve success in
certain scenarios, these challenges persist and must
be addressed for broader applicability.
To address the aforementioned challenges, we
present MMAC-Copilot, a framework designed
to enhance information exchange and collaboration among multi-modal agents. Central to this
framework is the team collaboration chain, where
agents—each driven by an LLM—adapt the initial plan based on their specific domain expertise.
When a user query is received, the Planner formulates an initial plan based on the query’s requirements. The plan is then iteratively refined through
collaboration with the other agents, ensuring that
insights from each agent’s domain expertise continuously adapt and improve the execution process.
As illustrated in Figure 1, MMAC-Copilot integrates five key agents:
• Planner: Specializes in strategic planning, resource allocation, and ensuring that all agents’

efforts are aligned toward achieving the target.
• Librarian: Excels in question-answering tasks
and API-based information retrieval.
• Programmer: Handles coding tasks, with
expertise in executing Bash commands and
Python scripts.

applications across diverse domains such as 3D
gaming, recreation, and office scenarios. VIBench
complements existing benchmarks by focusing on
the agents’ ability to interact with visually complex
user interfaces.

2

Related work

• Viewer: Focuses on processing visual information, understanding image content, and performing click-based interactions.

In this section, we review some related works, with
a focus on the domains of LLM-based agents and
autonomous agents.

• Video Analyst: Analyzes video content to extract key events.

2.1

In addition to these core agents, an auxiliary agent,
the Mentor, supervises the system’s interactions
with the environment, reviewing the user interface
after each interaction to confirm whether the desired outcomes have been achieved.
We evaluate MMAC-Copilot using two benchmarks: GAIA (Mialon et al., 2023) and our
newly introduced Visual Interaction Benchmark
(VIBench). GAIA is designed to assess general artificial intelligence assistants, and MMACCopilot achieved scores of 45.16, 20.75, and 6.12
on level-1, level-2, and level-3 tasks (as detailed
in Appendix C), outperforming previous methods by 6.8%. VIBench, developed specifically
for this study, evaluates performance in non-APIinteractable applications across domains such as
3D gaming, recreation, and office environments.
The results demonstrate MMAC-Copilot’s exceptional adaptability and precision in handling complex interfaces.
In summary, our main contributions are as follow:
First, we propose MMAC-Copilot, a collaborative framework involving specialized agents designed to navigate and perform general application tasks. MMAC-Copilot enhances autonomous
agents’ ability to interact with user interfaces when
processing tasks.
Next, to mitigate the incorrect planning issue
caused by LLMs’ hallucination, we introduce the
team collaboration chain which allows participating agents to adjust the initial plan based on their
domain expertise into MMAC-Copilot. It has
demonstrated adaptability in handling a variety of
case.
Finally, we develop the Visual Interaction Benchmark (VIBench), specifically designed to assess
the system’s performance in non-API-interactable

LLM-based agents

The sunrise field of LLM-based agents, highlighted
by projects such as AutoGPT (Significant-Gravitas,
2023) and TaskWeaver (Qiao et al., 2023), marks
a significant milestone in the field of LLM research. These agents adopt a human-like approach
to problem-solving by decomposing complex tasks
into manageable subtasks. The capability demonstrates a profound advancement in planning, observation, and responsive actions, closely mirroring
human cognitive processes (Touvron et al., 2023b;
Wang et al., 2024; Xi et al., 2023).
The LangChain Agent (Topsakal and Akinci,
2023) further extends these capabilities by enabling
LLMs to sequence actions, thus expanding the potential for automation. This strategic utilization of
LLMs underscores a move towards more sophisticated, context-aware AI systems.
Developments in multi-agent systems, such as
AutoGen (Wu et al., 2023), MetaGPT (Hong et al.,
2023a), and AutoAgents (Chen et al., 2023), introduce a novel dimension to the field by enabling
collaboration and competition among agents. This
architecture leverages the unique strengths of individual agents, enhancing system-wide efficiency
and adaptability in complex scenarios. Such collaborative frameworks are proving essential for largescale applications in sectors like healthcare (Dhatterwal et al., 2023; Jones et al., 2022), finance (Gautier et al., 2023), and urban planning (Bae et al.,
2022).
The versatility and efficacy of these LLM-based
agents are highlighted in a range of application
domains: In robotics, agents assist in both navigational tasks and complex manipulations, contributing to more autonomous and adaptive robotic
systems (Driess et al., 2023). Web manipulation
and data extraction have seen significant enhancements, enabling better data-driven decision-making
and user interaction models (Yao et al., 2022; Zhou

Figure 1: An overview of MMAC-Copilot framework.

et al., 2023b). The gaming industry benefits from
more dynamic AI opponents and game management systems, which improve user engagement
and game design (Fan et al., 2022; Tan et al., 2024).
Automated data analysis tools powered by LLM
agents offer sophisticated insights and predictions,
facilitating more effective data handling in business and research (Wang et al., 2023; Zhang et al.,
2023b).
2.2

Autonomous agents

The application of LVM systems for interfacing
with Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) in digital
applications have been a key area of research. Wonderland (Yan et al., 2023) harnessed the capabilities
of GPT-4V which delineated by Yang et al. (Yang
et al., 2023b) to navigate through mobile application interfaces by analyzing screenshots. Concurrently, the AppAgent (Yang et al., 2023a) utilizes GPT-4V to simulate the actions of mobile
users, facilitation the execution of tasks in mobile
applications through the analysis of device snapshots. Moreover, the MobileAgent incorporates
Optical Character Recognition (OCR) technology
to enhance the capabilities of of GPT-4V within a
similar mobile agent architecture. This strategic
enhancement allows MobileAgent to attain task
completion rates on par with human operators. In

contrast, CogAgent (Hong et al., 2023b) constructs
a specifically engineered LVM for interpreting and
navigating GUIs. UFO (Zhang et al., 2024) utilizes
the windows inspect tool to acquire component and
control information from system applications, providing it as context to GPT-4V to fully leverage its
planning capabilities.

3

MMAC-Copilot Framework

The workflow of MMAC-Copilot is designed to
leverage the specialized capabilities of each agent
in a sequential and collaborative manner. Here,
we present an algorithmic overview in Algorithm
1. In section 3.1, we discuss the specialization of
agents within the framework, each equipped with
distinct roles and tools. In section 3.2, we delve
into communications protocols which bolster accuracy in agents collaborations. In section 3.3, we
introduce the team collaboration chain, dynamic
framework that utilizes continuous feedback and
iterative improvements to adapt framework strategies in real-time.
3.1

Specialization of agents

Empirical studies suggest that diversity within human groups contributes to a variety of perspectives,
which in turn enhances the group’s performance
across various tasks (Bransford and Stein, 1993;

Algorithm 1 Workflow of MMAC-Copilot
Require: User request R
Ensure: Task completion that satisfies R
1: Initialize system state S0
2: Planner formulates initial plan P0 based on R
3: for each subtask s in P0 do
4:
Assign s to appropriate agent A
5:
A executes s, updates system state to Si
6:
Mentor checks Si ; provides feedback Fi
7:
if Fi indicates adjustment needed then
8:
Planner revises Pi based on Fi
9:
Go to step 4 with revised Pi
10:
else if Fi indicates no adjustments are
needed then
11:
if s is the last subtask in P0 then
12:
Terminate loop
13:
else
14:
Continue to the next subtask
15:
end if
16:
end if
17: end for

Programmer: Be responsible for writing and
executing scripts, such as Python and Bash, to directly interact with software environments. This
role is essential for tailoring applications to meet diverse requirements. The Programmer refines existing code by diagnosing and resolving issues. This
process involves clarifying identified problems, enhancing code functionality, handling exceptions
better, and providing detailed explanations.
Accurate Python statements are generated by
understanding the context of Python classes and analyzing method parameters, ensuring syntactically
correct calls. Also a evaluation mechanism further
complements the Programmer’s capabilities, assessing the refined code against task requirements,
its functionality, and alignment, leading to a comprehensive review process. More detailed Prompt
has been listed on Appendix B.
The interactions within the Programmer’s mechanism are mathematically represented as:
E

δ

T

R

X

V

Cinit −
→ Cmod −→ Out −
→ (Judge, Score)
Williams and O’Reilly III, 1998; Woolley et al.,
2015). Also, contemporary research indicates that
assigning specific roles to autonomous agents can
improve their effectiveness (Li et al., 2023; Qian
et al., 2023; Salewski et al., 2024). Thus, in our
framework, we have defined six agents, namely:
Planner, Librarian, Programmer, Viewer, Video
Analyst, and Mentor, as shown in Figure 1. The
followings are detailed introductions to each agent:
Planner: Employs LLM to strategically manage
and allocate tasks among agents, optimizing workflow efficiency. In contrast to other frameworks,
our Planner is not required to decompose tasks into
indivisible atomic subtasks. We recognize Planner operating solely in the textual modality may
not effectively integrate visual information such
as UI elements, potentially leading to hallucination. Therefore, when Planner identifies a subtask
which necessitates the incorporation of visual information, it provides only a coarse outline of the
subtask. It allows each agent to leverage its own
expertise, enhancing the adaptability of the overall
framework.
Librarian: Utilizes LLM and API for information retrieval, enabling it to answer queries and
provide foundational knowledge. It possesses the
capability to rapidly process vast amounts of information, thereby supporting user requests and
providing related context with other agent.

where:
• Cinit is the initial code.
• E stands for error analysis.
• R is the refinement process.
• Cmod represents the modified code.
• δ includes environmental variables.
• X is the execution function.
• Out includes runtime outputs and errors.
• T corresponds to the original task requirements.
• V is the evaluation process.
• Judge determines if the task is accomplished.
• Score assesses the code’s generality and robustness, with higher scores indicating retention.
Viewer: The Viewer module integrates GPT-4V
for the sophisticated interpretation of complex visual data extracted from screenshots. By coupling
this capability with the SeeClick model (Cheng
et al., 2024), the Viewer effectively translates visual analyses into executable commands—such as

initiating clicks on identified user interface elements. This integration bridges the gap between
visual comprehension and application interaction,
enabling automated manipulation of graphical interfaces based on visual understanding.
Video Analyst: The Video Analyst leverages
the Gemini Vision to process and analyze video
content, extracting critical visual information relevant to the task domain. This module is essential
for subtasks that depend on video-based data, enhancing the model’s ability to generalize across
different modalities. By interpreting queries and
retrieving pertinent details from video streams, the
Video Analyst delivers precise and contextually appropriate responses. These capabilities are crucial
for providing comprehensive contextual insights
and assisting other agents in understanding the current operational state. Consequently, the Video
Analyst adeptly handles complex scenarios where
video data is paramount.
Mentor: Powered by GPT-4V, the Mentor agent
plays a pivotal role in overseeing the system’s execution processes, providing strategic oversight and
troubleshooting support. After each subtask is executed, the Mentor analyzes screenshots from the
current application window, offering a detailed description of the visible state. It evaluates whether
the intended changes or commands have successfully impacted the application as expected. If the
analysis indicates that adjustments are needed, the
Mentor generates feedback based on these observations, which is then incorporated into the system’s
planning process for the next iteration.
This feedback loop allows the planner to revise
the current plan and reattempt the adjusted task.
However, if no adjustments are necessary, the system proceeds to the next subtask in the sequence.
In the case where the last subtask is reached and no
further changes are required, the system terminates
the process. This iterative mechanism of feedback
and improvement not only ensures the successful
completion of tasks but also enhances the overall
system performance by continuously refining actions based on empirical data.

nicates through a defined schema appropriate for
their role.
In specific, we define the output format of the
agents as JSON, and stipulate the keys which
should be output according to the different roles of
each agent. Meanwhile, each agent only receives
the content of the required key. For example, "observation" key is exclusive output by Mentor and
Viewer, as it is specifically to their role in emphasizing visual observations of screenshots. Apart
from themselves, only the Planner receives the content of "observation" key, both when revising initial plans. These protocols are designed to prevent
common issues such as data ambiguity in complex
multi-agent interactions. By standardizing the communication format and defining clear protocols for
message acknowledgment, MMAC-Copilot minimizes the risks of miscommunication and ensures
which tasks are executed reliably. Additionally, the
use of JSON allows for easy integration of new
agents as the system scales, supporting the framework’s adaptability and expansion.

3.2

During the planning phase,In the planning phase,
the planner formulates an initial plan based on user
requests. Initial plan often outline the subtasks in a
coarse manner, addressing the dynamic nature of
visual environments and the inherent limitations of
planning based on textual information alone. This
initial planning stage sets the foundation for task

Communication Protocols

Following established multi-agent frameworks
(Hong et al., 2023a; Li et al., 2023; Park et al.,
2023; Zhang et al., 2023a; Zhuge et al., 2023),
MMAC-Copilot adopts Structured Communication
Interfaces, avoiding the traps of unconstrained nature language communication. Each agent commu-

3.3

Team Collaboration Chain

Team collaboration chains leverage the strengths
of dispersed management structures to facilitate enhanced cooperation among team members across
different domains. By distributing responsibilities
and decision-making power, these chains enable
a more agile and responsive organizational environment. Such chain has been successfully implemented across multiple domains (Bang and Dalsgaard, 2005; Huh et al., 2019; Selvanathan and
Poravi, 2018; Yatsuka et al., 2020).
In the MMAC-Copilot framework, team collaboration chain is essential for managing difficult
tasks. This section delves into the collaborative
mechanisms that enable dynamic planning and the
iterative refinement of tasks, ensure effective execution and continuous improvement. A concrete
demonstration of the collaboration chain in operation can be seen in Figure 2.
3.3.1

Dynamic Planning and Subtask
Refinement

system through detailed analysis of screenshots and
the visible state of the application. This evaluation
determines whether the intended changes or commands have successfully impacted the application
as expected.
If discrepancies or incomplete tasks are identified, Mentor generates insights and structured feedback based on a deep analysis of the outcomes.
This feedback is crucial for revising the current
plans and is incorporated into the next round of
planning.

Figure 2: Example of MMAC-Copilot. User query is
"Open the Discord and Send a message to Dylan Li".
Red represents the agent that will take the next action
in the messaging process. Brown indicates the current
agent performing the task. Green color represents state
feedback.

execution but requires further refinement to address
the specifics of the visual statement.
As the system transitions to the execution phase,
agents equipped with specialized modalities, such
as the Viewer and Video Analyst, assume pivotal
roles. These agents reassess the current visual context and refine the coarsely defined subtasks into
detailed, atomic subtasks. This step is crucial for
adapting to real-time changes in the visual interface,
ensuring that each task is executed with precision
based on the latest visual information. This process showcases the strength of team collaboration,
where different agents contribute uniquely to the
refinement and execution of tasks.
3.3.2

Continuous Feedback and Iterative
Improvement

Mentor plays a fundamental role in the team collaboration chain by establishing a continuous feedback loop with the Planner. After the execution of
subtasks, Mentor evaluates the current state of the

4

Experiments

4.1

Benchmark and setting

We evaluate the performance of MMAC-Copilot
using two distinct benchmarks designed to challenge and assess the capabilities of autonomous
agent in diverse interaction environments. The first
is the General AI Assistant Benchmark (GAIA)
(Mialon et al., 2023), which includes 466 rigorous
question-answering tasks. GAIA primarily tests
AI assistants in a question-answering (QA) format,
focusing on their ability to utilize API calls for information retrieval and task execution. However,
GAIA restricts the evaluation to textual interactions and API-based actions, which do not fully
capture the broader range of GUI interactions that
are prevalent in real-world applications.
To address these limitations and to evaluate the
agents’ capabilities in a more complex and visually oriented environment, we introduced the Visual Interaction Benchmark (VIBench). VIBench
comprises cases from three categories of applications: 3D gaming, recreation, and office environments. Unlike GAIA, VIBench emphasizes
the necessity for agents to interact with applications through graphical user interfaces (GUIs) that
cannot typically be controlled via standard APIs
such as Win32 APIs. The core interaction process in VIBench can be mathematically described
as follows: Let S0 represent the initial system
state which includes the current GUI appearance
and available actions. Given a user request R,
the system must transition through a series of
states S1 , S2 , . . . , Sn via actions a1 , a2 , . . . , an , ultimately achieving the final state Sf that satisfies
R. This process is represented by the sequence:
a

a

···

a

1
2
n
S0 −→
S1 −→
S2 −
→ Sn −→
Sf

The primary goal of VIBench is not merely to
evaluate the agent’s ability to execute each step

Figure 3: Task Completion under VIBench with MMAC-Copilot. Displayed is a sequential illustration of task
completion across three distinct categories: (1) interactive gameplay performing skill in Genshin Impact; (2) operate
within office application VooV Meeting; (3) recreational operation, exemplified by navigating in Netflix.

efficiently but to assess whether the final state Sf
satisfies the initial user request R. This objective
emphasizes the effectiveness of the final outcome
over the process, reflecting the practical focus of
real-world applications:
Objective : Verify that Sf meets R
VIBench thus complements GAIA by adding a
layer of complexity and realism, challenging agents
to not only respond correctly in a QA format but
also to effectively navigate and interact within a
application environments that mirror everyday user
challenges. Examples are shown in Figure 3. We
also present the detailed list of request utilized in
VIBench in Appendix D.1.
Setting To ensure a fair comparison with previous work, we employed the same versions of
the ChatGPT API used in prior studies. Specifically, we utilized GPT-4-turbo-1106 and gpt-4vision-preview. For the Video Analyst, we used
gemini-1.5-pro-vision. More detailed experiment
setting could been seen in Appendix C.
4.2

Evaluation Method

For GAIA, each question calls for a specific response: string, number, or floats. Evaluation is conducted through a exact match between the model’s
answer and ground truth.

For our VIBench, we adopt human evaluation
which follow the SIMA evaluation method (SIMA
Team, 2024), recognizing that in numerous instances, task success cannot be automatically inferred. We engage human judges who possess
expert-level familiarity with the specific applications, defined as having at least 20 hours of application usage. These experts are asked to assess
recorded videos to determine whether the user requests have been accurately executed. During the
assessment, human experts are instructed to disregard any irrelevant actions performed by the agents.
Their judgments are solely based on whether the
stated objectives of the tasks are achieved, without
considering the intermediate steps or unrelated actions. Meanwhile, to minimize human subjectivity,
we have imposed a maximum limit of 30 execution
rounds for task. If the task is not completed within
30 rounds, it is judged as a failure.
4.3

Baseline

For GAIA, we present the performance of GPT-3.5
and GPT-4 with and without manually set plugins,
along with results from AutoGPT, Chamonmile
and FRIDAY which all use GPT-4 as their backend.
The selection of Plugins for GPT-4 is conducted
manually, with individual choosing based on specific user query. For comparative purposes, we also
include data on human performance sourced from

Table 1: Performance comparison on GAIA. All performance are reported on the private test set.

Model

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Average

Human*
Search engine

93.90
7.4

91.80
0.00

87.30
0.00

91.00
2.47

GPT-3.5 (Achiam et al., 2023)
GPT-4 (Achiam et al., 2023)
AutoGPT4 (Significant-Gravitas, 2023)
GPT4 Turbo (Achiam et al., 2023)
GPT-4 Plugins (Achiam et al., 2023)
Chamomile (Guillot, 2023)
FRIDAY (Wu et al., 2024)

4.3
9.68
15.05
9.68
30.30
16.13
40.86

1.89
1.89
0.63
6.92
9.70
17.61
20.13

2.08
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.08
6.12

2.67
4.00
5.00
6.67
14.60
14.67
24.25

Ours

45.16

20.75

6.12

25.91 (+6.8%)

Table 2: Evaluation results on VIBench.
Model

3D

Recreation

Office

Average

UFO
FRIDAY

0.00
31.58

28.57
42.86

15.38
30.77

14.65
35.07

Ours

63.16

69.23

78.57

70.32 (+35.25)

GAIA (Mialon et al., 2023).
For VIBench, we report the performance of UFO
and FRIDAY. Notably, since FRIDAY does not natively support the Windows platform, we have modified FRIDAY’s code to adapt it to Windows. Also
we set UFO’s Vision model same as our framework.
4.4

Results

MMAC-Copilot shows significant performance improvement across all levels of GAIA. As illustrated
in Table 1, MMAC-Copilot achieved the highest
scores in Level 1 (45.16) and Level 2 (20.75) tasks,
matching the highest score in Level 3 tasks (6.12).
Also on average, it outperformed the closest competing system, FRIDAY, by 6.8% in overall task
performance. Given that tasks in GAIA encompass
various complex AI assistant capabilities, from basic information retrieval to interactive task requiring multiple steps and integration of external data
sources.
In VIBench as shown in Table 2, MMACCopilot outperformed other systems across all application categories (3D gaming, recreation, and office scenarios). Our model achieved average scores
of 63.16% in 3D gaming, 69.23% in recreation, and
78.57% in office applications, with an overall average of 70.32%. It indicates MMAC-Copilot’s robust capability in navigating and interacting within

complex GUI environments, where direct API interaction is not possible.

5

Conclusion

MMAC-Copilot is a novel framework enhances
agent interactions within complex digital environments. This framework effectively addresses agent
hallucination, ensuring reliable responses to environmental changes. Tested on the GAIA benchmark and our VIBench, MMAC-Copilot demonstrates superior performance compared to existing
systems.

Limitation
We acknowledge that while MMAC-Copilot has
achieved a level of generality in application through
the integration of GUI models for visual detection,
it is still limited by the GUI model’s ability to understand UI components. Consequently, MMACCopilot struggles with interpreting complex UI interfaces and performing multi-step operations that
depend on such complexity. Additionally, MMACCopilot’s capabilities in real-time 3D gaming environments reveal gaps in the spatial understanding,
which is crucial for tasks such as navigation, aiming and shooting in 3D environments. The framework’s longer inference time impair the ability to
perform tasks with higher temporal sensitivity.
To solve these, we suggest integrating external
knowledge databases via online search engines,
providing additional context for decision-making
processes. This approach will not only help in
understanding complex UI layouts but also in recognizing user intentions and environmental cues in
real-time games.

References
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Rohan Anil, Andrew M. Dai, Orhan Firat, Melvin Johnson, Dmitry Lepikhin, Alexandre Passos, Siamak
Shakeri, Emanuel Taropa, Paige Bailey, Zhifeng
Chen, Eric Chu, Jonathan H. Clark, Laurent El
Shafey, Yanping Huang, Kathy Meier-Hellstern, Gaurav Mishra, Erica Moreira, Mark Omernick, Kevin
Robinson, Sebastian Ruder, Yi Tay, Kefan Xiao,
Yuanzhong Xu, Yujing Zhang, Gustavo Hernandez
Abrego, Junwhan Ahn, Jacob Austin, Paul Barham,
Jan Botha, James Bradbury, Siddhartha Brahma,
Kevin Brooks, Michele Catasta, Yong Cheng, Colin
Cherry, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo, Aakanksha
Chowdhery, Clément Crepy, Shachi Dave, Mostafa
Dehghani, Sunipa Dev, Jacob Devlin, Mark Díaz,
Nan Du, Ethan Dyer, Vlad Feinberg, Fangxiaoyu
Feng, Vlad Fienber, Markus Freitag, Xavier Garcia, Sebastian Gehrmann, Lucas Gonzalez, Guy GurAri, Steven Hand, Hadi Hashemi, Le Hou, Joshua
Howland, Andrea Hu, Jeffrey Hui, Jeremy Hurwitz, Michael Isard, Abe Ittycheriah, Matthew Jagielski, Wenhao Jia, Kathleen Kenealy, Maxim Krikun,
Sneha Kudugunta, Chang Lan, Katherine Lee, Benjamin Lee, Eric Li, Music Li, Wei Li, YaGuang Li,
Jian Li, Hyeontaek Lim, Hanzhao Lin, Zhongtao Liu,
Frederick Liu, Marcello Maggioni, Aroma Mahendru,
Joshua Maynez, Vedant Misra, Maysam Moussalem,
Zachary Nado, John Nham, Eric Ni, Andrew Nystrom, Alicia Parrish, Marie Pellat, Martin Polacek,
Alex Polozov, Reiner Pope, Siyuan Qiao, Emily Reif,
Bryan Richter, Parker Riley, Alex Castro Ros, Aurko Roy, Brennan Saeta, Rajkumar Samuel, Renee
Shelby, Ambrose Slone, Daniel Smilkov, David R.
So, Daniel Sohn, Simon Tokumine, Dasha Valter,
Vijay Vasudevan, Kiran Vodrahalli, Xuezhi Wang,
Pidong Wang, Zirui Wang, Tao Wang, John Wieting, Yuhuai Wu, Kelvin Xu, Yunhan Xu, Linting
Xue, Pengcheng Yin, Jiahui Yu, Qiao Zhang, Steven
Zheng, Ce Zheng, Weikang Zhou, Denny Zhou, Slav
Petrov, and Yonghui Wu. 2023. Palm 2 technical
report. Preprint, arXiv:2305.10403.
Anthropic. 2023. Model card and evaluations for claude
models.
Ki-Hwan Bae, Navonil Mustafee, Sanja LazarovaMolnar, and Long Zheng. 2022. Hybrid modeling
of collaborative freight transportation planning using
agent-based simulation, auction-based mechanisms,
and optimization. Simulation, 98(9):753–771.
Jørgen Bang and Christian Dalsgaard. 2005.
Samarbejde-kooperation
eller
kollaboration?
Tidsskrift for Universiteternes Efter-og Videreuddannelse (UNEV), 3(5).
John D Bransford and Barry S Stein. 1993. The ideal
problem solver.

Rizhao Cai, Zirui Song, Dayan Guan, Zhenhao
Chen, Xing Luo, Chenyu Yi, and Alex Kot. 2023.
Benchlmm: Benchmarking cross-style visual capability of large multimodal models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.02896.
Guangyao Chen, Siwei Dong, Yu Shu, Ge Zhang,
Jaward Sesay, Börje F Karlsson, Jie Fu, and Yemin
Shi. 2023. Autoagents: A framework for automatic
agent generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.17288.
Kanzhi Cheng, Qiushi Sun, Yougang Chu, Fangzhi Xu,
Yantao Li, Jianbing Zhang, and Zhiyong Wu. 2024.
Seeclick: Harnessing gui grounding for advanced
visual gui agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.10935.
Jagjit Singh Dhatterwal, Mahaveer Singh Naruka, and
Kuldeep Singh Kaswan. 2023. Multi-agent system
based medical diagnosis using particle swarm optimization in healthcare. In 2023 International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Smart Communication (AISC), pages 889–893. IEEE.
Ruomeng Ding, Chaoyun Zhang, Lu Wang, Yong Xu,
Minghua Ma, Wei Zhang, Si Qin, Saravan Rajmohan, Qingwei Lin, and Dongmei Zhang. 2023.
Everything of thoughts: Defying the law of penrose triangle for thought generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.04254.
Danny Driess, Fei Xia, Mehdi S. M. Sajjadi, Corey
Lynch, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Brian Ichter, Ayzaan
Wahid, Jonathan Tompson, Quan Vuong, Tianhe
Yu, Wenlong Huang, Yevgen Chebotar, Pierre Sermanet, Daniel Duckworth, Sergey Levine, Vincent
Vanhoucke, Karol Hausman, Marc Toussaint, Klaus
Greff, Andy Zeng, Igor Mordatch, and Pete Florence.
2023. Palm-e: An embodied multimodal language
model. Preprint, arXiv:2303.03378.
Linxi Fan, Guanzhi Wang, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Yuncong Yang, Haoyi Zhu, Andrew Tang,
De-An Huang, Yuke Zhu, and Anima Anandkumar.
2022. Minedojo: Building open-ended embodied
agents with internet-scale knowledge. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:18343–
18362.
AL Gautier, Marc Rigter, Bruno Lacerda, Nick Hawes,
and Michael Wooldridge. 2023. Risk-constrained
planning for multi-agent systems with shared resources.
Pierre
Guillot.
2023.
Create
audio
plugins
with
pure
data
patches.
https://github.com/pierreguillot/Camomile.
Shibo Hao, Yi Gu, Haodi Ma, Joshua Jiahua Hong,
Zhen Wang, Daisy Zhe Wang, and Zhiting Hu. 2023.
Reasoning with language model is planning with
world model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14992.
Sirui Hong, Xiawu Zheng, Jonathan Chen, Yuheng
Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang, Zili Wang, Steven
Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, et al. 2023a.
Metagpt: Meta programming for multi-agent collaborative framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.00352.

Wenyi Hong, Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Jiazheng
Xu, Wenmeng Yu, Junhui Ji, Yan Wang, Zihan Wang,
Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding, et al. 2023b. Cogagent: A
visual language model for gui agents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.08914.

Bo Qiao, Liqun Li, Xu Zhang, Shilin He, Yu Kang,
Chaoyun Zhang, Fangkai Yang, Hang Dong, Jue
Zhang, Lu Wang, et al. 2023.
Taskweaver:
A code-first agent framework. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.17541.

Seungyeon Huh, Shapna Muralidharan, Heedong Ko,
and Byounghyun Yoo. 2019. Xr collaboration architecture based on decentralized web. In Proceedings
of the 24th International Conference on 3D Web Technology, pages 1–9.

Leonard Salewski, Stephan Alaniz, Isabel Rio-Torto,
Eric Schulz, and Zeynep Akata. 2024. In-context impersonation reveals large language models’ strengths
and biases. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36.

Lorelei Jones, K. Armit, A. Haynes, and P. Lees. 2022.
Role of medical leaders in integrated care systems:
what can be learnt from previous research? BMJ
Leader, 7:133 – 136.

Nikethan Selvanathan and Guhanathan Poravi. 2018.
Comparative study on decentralized cloud collaboration (dcc). In 2018 3rd International Conference for
Convergence in Technology (I2CT), pages 1–6. IEEE.

Chunyuan Li, Cliff Wong, Sheng Zhang, Naoto
Usuyama, Haotian Liu, Jianwei Yang, Tristan Naumann, Hoifung Poon, and Jianfeng Gao. 2024. Llavamed: Training a large language-and-vision assistant
for biomedicine in one day. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36.
Guohao Li, Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Hani
Itani, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Bernard Ghanem. 2023.
Camel: Communicative agents for" mind" exploration of large scale language model society.
Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Yuheng Li, and Yong Jae
Lee. 2023. Improved baselines with visual instruction tuning. Preprint, arXiv:2310.03744.
Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae
Lee. 2024. Visual instruction tuning. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 36.
Ziyang Luo, Can Xu, Pu Zhao, Qingfeng Sun, Xiubo Geng, Wenxiang Hu, Chongyang Tao, Jing Ma,
Qingwei Lin, and Daxin Jiang. 2023. Wizardcoder:
Empowering code large language models with evolinstruct. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.08568.
Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Craig Swift,
Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom.
2023. Gaia: a benchmark for general ai assistants.
Preprint, arXiv:2311.12983.
Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida,
Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang,
Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al.
2022. Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:27730–27744.
Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bernstein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra
of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software
and Technology, pages 1–22.
Chen Qian, Xin Cong, Cheng Yang, Weize Chen,
Yusheng Su, Juyuan Xu, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong
Sun. 2023. Communicative agents for software development. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.07924.

Significant-Gravitas. 2023.
Autogpt: build &
use ai agents.
https://github.com/SignificantGravitas/AutoGPT.
SIMA Team. 2024. Scaling instructable agents across
many simulated worlds.
Weihao Tan, Ziluo Ding, Wentao Zhang, Boyu Li, Bohan Zhou, Junpeng Yue, Haochong Xia, Jiechuan
Jiang, Longtao Zheng, Xinrun Xu, et al. 2024. Towards general computer control: A multimodal agent
for red dead redemption ii as a case study. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.03186.
Oguzhan Topsakal and Tahir Cetin Akinci. 2023. Creating large language model applications utilizing
langchain: A primer on developing llm apps fast.
In International Conference on Applied Engineering
and Natural Sciences, volume 1, pages 1050–1056.
Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay
Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti
Bhosale, Dan Bikel, Lukas Blecher, Cristian Canton
Ferrer, Moya Chen, Guillem Cucurull, David Esiobu,
Jude Fernandes, Jeremy Fu, Wenyin Fu, Brian Fuller,
Cynthia Gao, Vedanuj Goswami, Naman Goyal, Anthony Hartshorn, Saghar Hosseini, Rui Hou, Hakan
Inan, Marcin Kardas, Viktor Kerkez, Madian Khabsa,
Isabel Kloumann, Artem Korenev, Punit Singh Koura,
Marie-Anne Lachaux, Thibaut Lavril, Jenya Lee, Diana Liskovich, Yinghai Lu, Yuning Mao, Xavier Martinet, Todor Mihaylov, Pushkar Mishra, Igor Molybog, Yixin Nie, Andrew Poulton, Jeremy Reizenstein, Rashi Rungta, Kalyan Saladi, Alan Schelten,
Ruan Silva, Eric Michael Smith, Ranjan Subramanian, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Binh Tang, Ross Taylor, Adina Williams, Jian Xiang Kuan, Puxin Xu,
Zheng Yan, Iliyan Zarov, Yuchen Zhang, Angela Fan,
Melanie Kambadur, Sharan Narang, Aurelien Rodriguez, Robert Stojnic, Sergey Edunov, and Thomas
Scialom. 2023a. Llama 2: Open foundation and finetuned chat models. Preprint, arXiv:2307.09288.
Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay
Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti

Bhosale, et al. 2023b. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.09288.
Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and
Anima Anandkumar. 2023. Voyager: An open-ended
embodied agent with large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.16291.
Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao
Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang,
Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, et al. 2024. A survey on large
language model based autonomous agents. Frontiers
of Computer Science, 18(6):1–26.
Katherine Y Williams and Charles A O’Reilly III. 1998.
Demography and. Research in organizational behavior, 20:77–140.
Anita Williams Woolley, Ishani Aggarwal, and
Thomas W Malone. 2015. Collective intelligence
and group performance. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 24(6):420–424.

Tomoaki Yatsuka, Aya Ishigaki, Surendra M Gupta,
Yuki Kinoshita, Tetsuo Yamada, and Masato Inoue. 2020. Collaboration strategy for a decentralized supply chain using linear physical programming. International Journal of Automation Technology, 14(5):723–733.
Chaoyun Zhang, Liqun Li, Shilin He, Xu Zhang,
Bo Qiao, Si Qin, Minghua Ma, Yu Kang, Qingwei Lin, Saravan Rajmohan, Dongmei Zhang, and
Qi Zhang. 2024. Ufo: A ui-focused agent for windows os interaction. Preprint, arXiv:2402.07939.
Hongxin Zhang, Weihua Du, Jiaming Shan, Qinhong
Zhou, Yilun Du, Joshua B Tenenbaum, Tianmin Shu,
and Chuang Gan. 2023a. Building cooperative embodied agents modularly with large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.02485.
Wenqi Zhang, Yongliang Shen, Weiming Lu, and Yueting Zhuang. 2023b. Data-copilot: Bridging billions of data and humans with autonomous workflow.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.07209.

Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu,
Shaokun Zhang, Erkang Zhu, Beibin Li, Li Jiang,
Xiaoyun Zhang, and Chi Wang. 2023. Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via multiagent conversation framework. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.08155.

Chunting Zhou, Pengfei Liu, Puxin Xu, Srini Iyer,
Jiao Sun, Yuning Mao, Xuezhe Ma, Avia Efrat,
Ping Yu, Lili Yu, Susan Zhang, Gargi Ghosh, Mike
Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Omer Levy. 2023a.
Lima: Less is more for alignment. Preprint,
arXiv:2305.11206.

Zhiyong Wu, Chengcheng Han, Zichen Ding, Zhenmin
Weng, Zhoumianze Liu, Shunyu Yao, Tao Yu, and
Lingpeng Kong. 2024. Os-copilot: Towards generalist computer agents with self-improvement. Preprint,
arXiv:2402.07456.

Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou,
Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Yonatan
Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, et al. 2023b. Webarena:
A realistic web environment for building autonomous
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.13854.

Zhiheng Xi, Wenxiang Chen, Xin Guo, Wei He, Yiwen
Ding, Boyang Hong, Ming Zhang, Junzhe Wang,
Senjie Jin, Enyu Zhou, et al. 2023. The rise and
potential of large language model based agents: A
survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.07864.

Mingchen Zhuge, Haozhe Liu, Francesco Faccio, Dylan R Ashley, Róbert Csordás, Anand Gopalakrishnan, Abdullah Hamdi, Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Vincent Herrmann, Kazuki Irie, et al. 2023.
Mindstorms in natural language-based societies of
mind. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.17066.

An Yan, Zhengyuan Yang, Wanrong Zhu, Kevin Lin,
Linjie Li, Jianfeng Wang, Jianwei Yang, Yiwu Zhong,
Julian McAuley, Jianfeng Gao, et al. 2023. Gpt4v in wonderland: Large multimodal models for
zero-shot smartphone gui navigation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.07562.
Zhao Yang, Jiaxuan Liu, Yucheng Han, Xin Chen, Zebiao Huang, Bin Fu, and Gang Yu. 2023a. Appagent: Multimodal agents as smartphone users. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2312.13771.
Zhengyuan Yang, Linjie Li, Kevin Lin, Jianfeng
Wang, Chung-Ching Lin, Zicheng Liu, and Lijuan
Wang. 2023b. The dawn of lmms: Preliminary
explorations with gpt-4v (ision). arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.17421, 9(1):1.
Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik
Narasimhan. 2022. Webshop: Towards scalable realworld web interaction with grounded language agents.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
35:20744–20757.

A

Demo on Mac OS

The following Figure 4 illustrates an example of
MMAC-Copilot performing an action sequence on
macOS in response to the user request “Play <Love
Story> on Spotify.” Each subfigure represents a distinct step in the process: (A) shows the “Planner”
formulating the initial plan; (B) the “Programmer”
launching the application using a bash command;
(C) the “Viewer” clicking the search box and entering <Love Story>; and (D) the “Viewer” clicking
the play button. This demonstrates how MMACCopilot efficiently handles a media playback request from the user.

B

Agent prompts

To better explain the operating mechanism of Programmer, we have provided the complete prompts
in the Figure 9,10,11,12,13,15,16,17 and 18.

C

GAIA Detail Experiment Setting

GAIA serves as a comprehensive benchmark for
evaluating general AI assistants by testing their
ability to handle real-world scenarios across various capabilities, including advanced reasoning,
multi-modality handling, coding, and web browsing. The benchmark comprises text-based questions, sometimes accompanied by supplementary
files such as images or spreadsheets. These questions are designed to cover a broad range of use
cases from everyday tasks to complex scientific
queries, necessitating concise and unambiguously
correct answers that are straightforward to verify.
C.1

Levels of Difficulty

The questions in GAIA are categorized into three
levels based on their complexity:
• Level 1: Simplest tasks, generally requiring
minimal tool use and up to five steps.
• Level 2: More complex tasks that require integrating information from multiple sources,
involving about 5 to 10 steps.
• Level 3: The most complex tasks, demanding
extensive sequences of actions and the use of
multiple tools to solve real-world problems.
We present a sample GAIA question from Level
1 through Level 3 in Figure 5

C.2

Evaluation Methodology

GAIA employs an automated, precise, and factual
evaluation method. Each question demands an
answer in a specified format (string, number, or
comma-separated list) and correctness is verified
through an exact match with a pre-defined ground
truth, ensuring the evaluation’s reliability and efficiency.
C.3

Model Experimental Setup

In this section, we introduce the detailed experiment setting of our comparison models.
We evaluates leading AI models, including GPT3.5, GPT4 and AutoGPT, also conduct non-AI baselines experiments such as human annotators and
traditional web search methods. We will introduce
each experiment setting as following.
Comparison Models:
GPT3.5/GPT4: This setup evaluates the core linguistic and reasoning capabilities of GPT4
without the aid of any external tools or plugins. We use a prefix prompt before asking
the model a question. To ease answer extraction, we specify a format in the prefix prompt
which could been saw in Figure 6.
GPT4 with Plugins: In this configuration, GPT4
is enhanced with selected plugins that extend
its functionality. This includes tools for advanced data analysis, web browsing, and handling of third-party APIs.
AutoGPT: Utilizing GPT4 as its backend, AutoGPT automatically selects plugins based on
the context of the query. This model is tested
for its efficiency in tool selection and its ability to autonomously adapt to complex query
requirements.
Human*: Consisting of experts in various fields,
human annotators provide responses based on
their expertise and research abilities. Their
performance sets a high standard for AI models, especially in tasks requiring deep domain
knowledge and nuanced understanding.
Search engine: Using conventional search engines, this baseline evaluates the effectiveness of straightforward information retrieval.
Specifically, we enter our questions into a
search engine and review the first page of results to see if the answer can be inferred.

Figure 4: Illustrates the sequence of actions undertaken by MMAC-Copilot in response to the user’s request "Play
<Love Story> on Spotify". (A) Represents the initial state where the "Planner" formulates preliminary plans. . (B)
"Programmer" launches the application using a bash command. (C) "Viewer" click the search box and enter <Love
Story>. (D) "Viewer" click the play button.

Notes: Each model undergoes rigorous testing
across a series of structured tasks that range from
simple to highly complex, categorized into three
levels of difficulty as previously described. Models
are evaluated based on accuracy, the relevance of
the responses, and the efficiency of handling the
queries. Each session is replicated three times to
ensure consistency and reliability in the results.

D

VIBench

D.1

VIBench Results List

In Table 3, we provide a comprehensive list of
the user requests featured in VIBench, along with
the corresponding performance of MMAC-Copilot.
These requests cover a range of commonly used
functions across eight popular applications. For
clarity, requests that involve follow-up tasks are
numbered sequentially. In the Success column, “✓”
denotes that MMAC-Copilot completes the request
successfully, while “✗” indicates a failure to fufill
the request.
D.2

Visualization

We have visualized VIBench with requests in Figure 7 and 8.

D.3

Adapt for Windows

To compatible with the Windows platform, we
made some adaptations focusing on tool integration
and modifications for platform-specific libraries.
One of the primary adaptations involved the integration of tools such as the Python environment
and Windows Shell support. The Python interpreter
was configured to work within the Windows platform and Windows path handling were incorporated to ensure smooth execution of scripts and
Python modules. In addition to tool integration,
some Python libraries required adaptation to function properly on Windows. We used alternative
Python modules to replace database libraries that
did not fully support the Windows environment for
tool persistent. As Python libraries behave differently on Windows due to variations in concurrent
requests management, we also made some adaptation for it.

Figure 5: Sample Questions from GAIA. These tasks necessitate core competencies including reasoning, the ability
to handle multiple modalities, and proficiency in using tools. The answers to these questions are unequivocally
defined and are intentionally unlikely to be present in unstructured training datasets. Several questions are
supplemented with visual evidence, mirroring authentic scenarios and enhancing the precision of query formulation.

Figure 6: The system prompt to answer GAIA.

Table 3: The requests in VIBench and detailed results achieved by MMAC-Copilot

Operation
Ride on vehicle [Press F]
Probe shot [Press Left mouse]
Picking up supplies [Identify the screen and press F]
Assemble accessories and discard unnecessary ones
Use E skill
Shoot
Climb up the rope
Absorb energy ball
Take turns to release Q skills
Pick up the Divine Eye
Freeze trap
Fishing
Climb
Send message to xxx
Create meeting
Create a group
End meeting
Turn on camera
Create a meeting
Join a meeting
Click the record bottom
Copy Invitation
Open the library in steam
Open the friends interface
Click on store and then click on the search box
View current music and play it
Search for a specific piece of music and save it
Open docuseries in Netflix
Save XXX Series to my list
Remove XXX from my list

Application
PUBG
PUBG
PUBG
PUBG
Valorant
Valorant
Valorant
Valorant
Genshin
Genshin
Genshin
Genshin
Genshin
DingTalk
DingTalk
DingTalk
TencentMeeting
TencentMeeting
TencentMeeting
TencentMeeting
TencentMeeting
TencentMeeting
Steam
Steam
Steam
Spotify
Spotify
Netflix
Netflix
Netflix

Success
✓
✓
✓
✗
✓
✓
✗
✗
✗
✓
✗
✗
✗
✓
✗
✓
✗
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✗
✓
✓
✓
✗
✗

Figure 7: How VIBench works(Part-I)

Figure 8: How VIBench works(Part-II)

Figure 9: Prompt for Programmer Part

Figure 10: Prompt for Programmer Part

Figure 11: Prompt for Programmer Part

Figure 12: Prompt for Programmer Part

Figure 13: Prompt for Programmer Part

Figure 14: Prompt for Programmer Part

Figure 15: Prompt for Programmer Part

Figure 16: Prompt for Programmer Part

Figure 17: Prompt for Programmer Part

Figure 18: Prompt for Programmer Part

