A Symbolic Adversarial Learning Framework for
Evolving Fake News Generation and Detection*
Chong Tian
MBZUAI
Abu Dhabi, UAE
Chong.Tian@mbzuai.ac.ae

Qirong Ho†
Xiuying Chen†
MBZUAI
MBZUAI
Abu Dhabi, UAE
Abu Dhabi, UAE
Qirong.Ho@mbzuai.ac.ae Xiuying.Chen@mbzuai.ac.ae

Abstract

arXiv:2508.19633v1 [cs.CL] 27 Aug 2025

Rapid LLM advancements heighten fake news
risks by enabling the automatic generation
of increasingly sophisticated misinformation.
Previous detection methods, including finetuned small models or LLM-based detectors,
often struggle with its dynamically evolving
nature. In this work, we propose a novel framework called the Symbolic Adversarial Learning Framework (SALF), which implements an
adversarial training paradigm by an agent symbolic learning optimization process, rather than
relying on numerical updates. SALF introduces
a paradigm where the generation agent crafts
deceptive narratives, and the detection agent
uses structured debates to identify logical and
factual flaws for detection, and they iteratively
refine themselves through such adversarial interactions. Unlike traditional neural updates,
we represent agents using agent symbolic learning, where learnable weights are defined by
agent prompts, and simulate back-propagation
and gradient descent by operating on natural
language representations of weights, loss, and
gradients. Experiments on two multilingual
benchmark datasets demonstrate SALF’s effectiveness, showing it generates sophisticated
fake news that degrades state-of-the-art detection performance by up to 53.4% in Chinese
and 34.2% in English on average. SALF also refines detectors, improving detection of refined
content by up to 7.7%. We hope our work
inspires further exploration into more robust,
adaptable fake news detection systems.

1

Introduction

The dissemination of fake news, defined as fabricated information mimicking legitimate news,
has become an increasingly pervasive issue, particularly with the rise of social media as a primary source of information. Its far-reaching consequences extend to influencing elections (Allcott
* Accepted to EMNLP 2025 Main Conference.
†

Corresponding Authors.

Traditional fake
news detectors stay
at the same level

Static Internal Knowledge
Level 1

Level 1

Level 1

Lack of Critical Thinking
Computationally Expensive
Training

SALF fake news
generator improves
with each iteration

Level 1

Level 10 !

Level 99 !!!

Agent Symbolic Learning
GAN-Style Evolving

SALF fake news
detector gets
smarter through
iterations

Flexible and Explainable
Refinement
Powerful LLM-Driven
Level 1

Level 10 !

Level 99 !!!

Figure 1: While existing fake news detectors remain
static and fail to keep up with the increasingly sophisticated fake news, our SALF framework showcases continuous and effective evolution.

and Gentzkow, 2017), public health (Naeem et al.,
2021), and economic stability (Mwangi, 2023).
Worse even, the rise of LLMs dramatically lowers the barriers to generating sophisticated fake
news (Sun et al., 2024), and the fake news has
evolved to be more deceptive (Sciannamea et al.,
2020; Liu et al., 2025, 2024b).
Fighting against fake news has garnered significant attention in recent years (Zhou and Zafarani,
2020; Kumar and Shah, 2018; Chen et al., 2023),
and existing approaches can generally be classified
into two categories. One paradigm employs smaller
models specifically fine-tuned for the fake news
detection task (Hu et al., 2024; Aggarwal et al.,
2020), while the other focuses on designing more
effective prompts for LLMs (Su et al., 2023; Hu
et al., 2024). However, these methods often struggle to efficiently combat the evolving nature of fake
news (Guo et al., 2021). Smaller language models
are typically trained on corpora collected during
a specific period, limiting their ability to generalize to new fake news or unseen data (O’Brien
et al., 2018). Similarly, for LLMs, even carefully
crafted prompts designed for detecting fake news
in a specific context may fail to adapt effectively to
fake news or misinformation generated in different
temporal or thematic contexts.

Hence, in this work, we propose a Symbolic
Adversarial Learning Framework (SALF), consisting of a fake news generation agent and a detection agent, aimed at addressing the above challenges. Both agents are LLM-based, leveraging
the strong semantic understanding capabilities of
these models. As the name suggests, our framework incorporates an adversarial concept similar
to GANs (Goodfellow et al., 2014), where the generation agent crafts deceptive narratives, and the
detection agent engages in identifying logical flaws
and inaccuracies. In this setup, both agents undergo continuous improvement through adversarial
interactions. However, unlike traditional GANs,
where the update process relies on numerical neural network computations, updating LLMs directly
through such methods is computationally expensive and impractical. To overcome this limitation,
we extend the agent symbolic learning work (Zhou
et al., 2024) to our adversarial learning framework,
where the learnable weights are defined as agent
strategies, represented by prompts in this work.
Agent symbolic learning simulates backpropagation and gradient descent by operating on natural language representations of weights, losses,
and gradients. In other words, the adversarial
training process is achieved by iteratively refining
the prompts for both the generation and detection
agents based on their performance. This enables
the generation agent to craft increasingly deceptive narratives, while the detection agent enhances
its ability to identify logical inconsistencies and
inaccuracies through structured debates. This symbolic approach allows for a more interpretable and
adaptive adversarial training process.
The key contributions of this work are as follows: First, we innovate to extend a recently proposed Agent Symbolic Learning framework to a
GAN-like adversarial training paradigm, creating
the Symbolic Adversarial Learning Framework
(SALF) and proving its feasibility and effectiveness. Second, we apply SALF to fake news detection and generation, where it improves through
interactions between a fake news generator and detector, adapting to the evolving nature of fake news
and contributing to overcoming the limitations of
other static models. Finally, we implemented comprehensive experiments to prove the effectiveness
of the SALF framework. To be specific, the SALF
generator generates sophisticated fake news that
degrades state-of-art detection performance by up
to 53.4% on the Chinese dataset and 34.2% on the

English dataset, on average, while the SALF refined generator has a 7.7% detection improvement
towards these refined fake news.

2

Related Work

2.1

Fake News Detection

Early fake news detection methods primarily relied on handcrafted linguistic features combined
with classic machine learning classifiers (Qian and
et al., 2018; Yu and et al., 2017). These approaches
captured surface-level cues, such as specific word
usage or sentence structures, and achieved promising results in controlled scenarios. However, their
performance often deteriorated when applied to
unstructured social media data or adversarially
crafted misinformation (Dsouza and French, 2022;
Bhatt et al., 2022). Subsequent research introduced
smaller language models with enhanced reasoning capabilities (Jin and et al., 2022; Zhu et al.,
2022), which allowed for the detection of more
subtle logical inconsistencies within textual content. Additionally, efforts to integrate multimodal
data, such as images and source metadata, further
improved the robustness of fake news detection
systems (Zheng and et al., 2022). More recently,
the strong semantic understanding capabilities of
LLMs have been leveraged for fake news detection. For example, the work (Ma et al., 2024) utilized LLMs to analyze contextual relationships and
detect nuanced misinformation. However, such
methods rely on static prompts and the inherent
knowledge of specific LLMs, limiting their ability
to adapt and improve through self-learning and constraining their performance in evolving misinformation scenarios. The work most related to ours is
(Wang et al., 2024b), which proposed LLM-GAN,
an iterative framework that adversarially optimizes
both the fake news generator and detector. However, LLM-GAN uses direct fake news detection
without critical thinking, limiting its adversarial
optimization due to potential inherent biases and
knowledge boundaries of specific LLMs. Moreover, it focuses solely on enhancing detector performance while neglecting to evaluate the generator
component, resulting in a partial detection method
that inadequately adapts to evolving fake news.
2.2

Fake News Generation

As a countermeasure to fake news detection, research on fake news generation has emerged, serving as a critical tool for benchmarking and improv-

ing detection models. These works simulate the
strategies employed in real-world misinformation
campaigns, enabling researchers to test and enhance the robustness of detection systems against
evolving and sophisticated fake news (Wanda and
Diqi, 2024; Wang et al., 2024a). Early approaches
to fake news generation relied on template-based
or rule-based methods (Shu et al., 2021), producing fabricated content with limited diversity and
realism. With advancements in natural language
processing, modern fake news generation techniques have adopted generative models, such as
GPT-series LLMs, capable of crafting highly sophisticated and contextually coherent misinformation (Huang and Sun, 2024; Pan et al., 2023). For
instance, the study (Huang and Sun, 2024) demonstrates ChatGPT’s proficiency in generating highquality fake news samples through various prompting methods. Other recent efforts also leverage
LLMs to generate adversarial examples through
stylistic attacks, primarily to enhance detector robustness (Wu et al., 2024; Park et al., 2025).
However, these methods lack adaptability: their
predefined strategies, such as carefully crafted
LLM prompts, fail to emulate the dynamic nature
of real-world fake news, resulting in generated content that is superficial and relatively crude.
2.3

Automatic Prompt Engineering

Prompt engineering has become a pivotal technique
for enhancing the performance of LLMs across diverse tasks. Traditionally, this process involves
manually crafting prompts to elicit desired behaviors, which is both time-consuming and reliant on
human expertise (Giray, 2023). To address these
limitations, recent research has focused on automating the prompt engineering process through innovative methods. One such method is the Automatic Prompt Engineer (Chen et al., 2024), which
leverages LLMs to autonomously generate and refine prompts. Similarly, RePrompt (Chen et al.,
2024) introduces a novel approach for optimizing
prompts, enabling LLMs to learn domain-specific
strategies for tasks like PDDL generation (Guan
et al., 2023) and travel planning. Extending this,
agent symbolic learning (Zhou et al., 2024) treats
prompts as learnable components, enabling agents
to dynamically adjust their prompts and configurations, thereby enhancing adaptability to new tasks.
In this work, we introduce the automatic agent symbolic learning process into adversarial fake news
generation and detection settings.

3

Methodology

3.1

Problem Formulation

We begin by introducing the notations and key concepts, as shown in Figure 2.
Formally, let f (t−1) represent the fake news generated in the previous iteration, where t denotes the
current iteration number. (1) Firstly, the genera(t−1)
tor agent, initialized with a prompt θG , revises
f (t−1) to create a more deceptive version of fake
news f (t) , which is then passed to the detector
for evaluation. (2) Secondly, the detector operates in a debate-like framework with structured
stages: opening statements, questioning, rebuttals,
and closing statements. These stages are guided by
t−1
the prompt of detector θD
, which evolves over iterations. At the end of each debate round, a “judge”
evaluates the arguments and assigns a detection result, J , indicating whether the content is classified
as true or false. (3) Thirdly, following each round,
both the detector and generator engage in an agent
symbolic learning process to refine their prompts,
(t)
(t)
θD for the detector and θG for the generator.
After at most T iterations, the process converges,
yielding optimized prompts for both agents and
enabling robust detection of increasingly sophisticated fake news. For notation simplicity, we will
omit the iteration number t in flowing sections and
only retain it in the Algorithm 1. We also list the
notations in Appendix F for reference convenience.
3.2

Agent Construction

In this subsection, we first present basic setups of
the agents and then elaborate on the agents’ symbolic learning process for their evolution.
3.2.1 Generator Agent
The generator produces the next version of fake
news using prompts refined in previous iterations:
′

f = LLMgenerate (f, θG ),
where LLMgenerate denotes the generator function
rewriting the current fake news f under the guidance of the generator’s prompt θG to produce re′
fined fake news f , reducing logical or factual mistakes exposed by the detector’s debate and making
it more deceptive and harder to identify.
3.2.2 Detector Agent
The debate format promotes critical thinking from
diverse perspectives, making it an effective tool for
identifying logical or factual errors (Liang et al.,

Positive
Debaters

Agent Symbolic
Learning

Negative
Debaters
Fake News
Generation

Opening
Statement​
Question and
Rebuttal​

Generator Symbolic
Optimization based
on Debate Record

Closing
Statement​

Debate Truth
Detection

Detector
Optimization if
Detection fails

Rewritten
Fake News

Debate Truth
Detection

......

......

Judge​
Debate Record

Debate Truth
Detector

Symbolic Adversarial
Learning Framework

Numerical
Optimization

Debate
Record

Data
Sample

Symbolic
Loss

Loss

Optimization
Direction

Gradient

Prompt
Update

Parameter
Update
Improved
Model
Performance

Improved
Content
Generation

Generator Symbolic
Optimization

Figure 2: This framework tackles evolving fake news through an adversarial agent symbolic learning dynamic
between a generator and a detector. The generator refines fake news using prompts and debate feedback, while the
detector analyzes and debates to identify vulnerabilities. Both agents iteratively optimize, co-evolving to tackle
increasingly deceptive misinformation. See Appendix A for algorithm details.

2023).We employ multi-role debate as our detection mechanism. Our debate-based detector simulates the real human debate scenario, comprising
three debater agents on both sides and structured
into three stages: the opening statement, questioning and rebuttal, and the closing statement. At the
conclusion phase, a judge evaluates the argument
of both sides and determines whether the news is
classified as true or fake. We represent the entire
debate record R for a piece of fake news f as:
R ← ExecuteDebate(f, θD ),
which records the argument from different debating
roles (positive/negative opening, questioning, rebuttal, or closing), and θD represents the detector’s
prompt, which is also the debaters’ prompts collection. Implementation details of ExecuteDebate are
shown on the left side of Figure 2. Finally, based
on the debate record R, a prompted LLM-driven
judge agent outputs the detection result:

J = Judge R ∈ {0, 1},
where 1 indicates that the fake news has been successfully detected (i.e., classified as fake), and 0
indicates otherwise (i.e., classified as true or detection failed). The judge LLM is provided with the
full debate transcript and prompted to determine
which side presented a more convincing case regarding the veracity of the news content. While any

LLM-based judgment may exhibit some inevitable
variance, our large-scale experiments demonstrate
consistent trends, suggesting stability.
3.3

Generator Optimization

Inspired by (Zhou et al., 2024), we extend the application of agent symbolic learning by integrating it into an adversarial setting. Unlike (Zhou
et al., 2024), which focuses on isolated optimization tasks, our work leverages adversarial interactions to refine the generator and detector dynamically. The generator’s symbolic optimization process consists of four stages: (1) symbolic loss computation, (2) optimization direction analysis, (3)
prompt update, and (4) improved content generation. These stages parallel the classical numerical
optimization pipeline of loss computation, gradient
computation, gradient descent, and model inference while introducing interpretability. This process, tailored to the adversarial framework, is illustrated on the right of Figure 2. Prompts used in this
section is listed in Appendix G.
3.3.1 Symbolic Loss
A prompted LLM analyzes fake news f and the
debate record R to produce a symbolic loss:
Lsym = LLMevaluate (f, R),
which uses natural language to measure how effectively f has evaded detection while maintaining

semantic consistency and highlights any critical
flaws uncovered during the debate.
3.3.2 Optimization Direction
Another prompted LLM analyzes Lsym and the generator prompt θG to compute a symbolic gradient:
∇sym = LLManalyze (θG , Lsym ),
guiding improvements in the generator’s prompt
to enhance plausibility, add subtle misinformation
cues, or correct logical flaws from the prior debate.
3.3.3 Prompt Update
The generator uses another prompted LLM to up′
date its prompt θG to θG based on ∇sym :
′

θG = LLMoptimize (θG , ∇sym ),
adjusting rhetorical style or reordering narrative
elements to enhance deception.
3.3.4 Improved Content Generation
′
Finally, the refined generator prompt θG is used to
′
generate a new piece of fake news f while maintaining the same semantic meaning as f :
′

′

f = LLMgenerate (f, θG ),
′

and the newly generated f is then passed to the
subsequent debate round, where the debate system
attempts to detect any logical or factual inconsistencies again. This cycle continues until either the
stopping criterion described in Section 3.5 or a
preset maximum iteration number T is reached.
3.3.5 Symbolic vs. Numerical Optimization
SALF applies symbolic optimization through discrete text rewriting rules (e.g., prompt optimization directions, news rewriting guidance) rather
than numerical gradient-based updates. Compared
to conventional numerical optimization: (1) Interpretability: Each rewrite is human-readable, controllable and explainable. (2) Adaptability: Rules
act directly on text, avoiding tokenization brittleness. (3) Black-Box-friendly and Parameter-Free
Training: Enables API-calling without access to
model internals or costly backpropagation.
3.4

Detector Optimization

The detector’s prompt θD only undergoes updates when a missed detection occurs. In this
scenario, the system extracts the core fake news
generation prompt from the generator, focusing

solely on elements relevant to the generation
strategies. This process is represented as PG =
ExtractPrompts(θG ). The extracted prompt is then
incorporated into the negative team’s prompt. Formally, for each negative-role agent ri with its
prompt θD,ri , and its prompt is updated by:

′
θD,ri = Incorporate θD,ri , PG ,
which strengthens the negative team’s vigilance
against the specific deceptive strategy used by the
generator. By focusing on how the generator originally formulated f (t) , the detectors gain a more
direct line of reference to probe for similar maneuvers in future debates, thus promoting more robust
fake news detection in subsequent rounds.
3.5

Optimization Stopping Criteria

In numerical optimization methods like gradient
descent, a specific numerical threshold is often set
as the stopping criterion; once the loss converges
to this threshold, the optimization process halts.
However, in our work, the symbolic loss is not represented by a specific numerical value and cannot
be directly quantified. Therefore, we have established distinct convergence conditions tailored to
our symbolic network, focusing on the interplay
between the generator and detector.
For the detector, we define a reward function that
measures its success in detecting fake news:


RewardD (θG , θD ) = 1−Ef ∼θG Evasion(f, θD ) .
Here, θG represents the generator’s prompt, and
f ∼ θG denotes the fake news f generated by
the generator using prompt θG , with varying hyperparameters like temperature. θD refers to the
detector’s prompt, which is a collection of prompts
from multiple debaters. The function Evasion evaluates whether a generated fake news item f evades
detection by the detector θD , formally defined as:
Evasion(f, θD ) = 1(J = 0 |f,θD ),
where J = 0 indicates the detector failed to identify f as fake news, per the judge agent; 1(·) is the
indicator function, returning 1 if the detector fails
to classify f as fake and 0 otherwise.
The generator’s reward function incentivizes
generating fake news that evades detection from
the detector while preserving semantic similarity
with the original fake news content:

RewardG (θG , θD ) = Ef ∼θG α Evasion(f, θD )

+(1 − α) Sim(f, f (0) ) ,

where α ∈ [0, 1] adjusts the trade-off between
detection failure and semantic similarity. In this
work, we set α = 0.5. The Sim function measures
whether the generated fake news f aligns semantically with the original fake news f (0) , as scored by
an independently prompted LLM:
Sim(f, f (0) ) = LLMscore (f, f (0) ) ∈ [0, 1],
with higher Sim values indicating greater semantic
consistency between the original and refined news.
The optimization process halts when neither the
generator nor the detector reward function achieves
significant improvement (greater than a predefined
threshold ϵ, such as 0.05) or when a preset iteration
limit T is reached. Conceptually, an equilibrium or
stopping condition is reached when:
∗
∗
θG
, θD
:

(
∗ = arg max
θG
θG RewardG (θG , θD ),
∗
θD = arg maxθD RewardD (θG , θD ).

This ensures the generator and detector refine strategies to a stable point, aligning with SALF objectives. As shown in Appendix E, convergence typically occurs within a few iterations.

4

Experiment Results

4.1

Experimental Settings

Datasets: We evaluated our framework using two
benchmark datasets designed for fake news detection tasks. The first is Weibo21 (Nan et al., 2021),
a large-scale Chinese dataset collected from Weibo
that captures the unique linguistic and contextual
challenges of detecting fake news in the Chinese
social media environment. The second is GossipCop (Shu et al., 2020), an English dataset focused
on celebrity gossip, with each article labeled as
true or false, reflecting the challenges of detecting
misinformation in entertainment-related domains.
Baselines: We evaluated the proposed SALF
framework on three types of baselines: (1) LLMonly: we employed GPT-4o mini and DeepSeek V3
for pure LLM-based fake news detection. (2) SLMonly: we used a representative work ENDEF (Zhu
et al., 2022), an entity debiasing framework that
mitigates entity bias using causal learning. (3)
SLM+LLM: we employed the current popular and
representative work ARG and ARG-D (Hu et al.,
2024): ARG integrates LLM and SLM methods
to enhance fake news detection. While ARG-D is
a distilled, rationale-free version of ARG that is

designed for cost-sensitive scenarios where LLM
querying is restricted (Hu et al., 2024).
Metrics: We evaluated the model performance
using four complementary metrics: (1) Accuracy,
which measures the proportion of correctly classified samples; (2) Macro F1 (macF1), the harmonic
mean of precision and recall across all classes; (3)
F1real , which assesses the model’s capability to detect true news; and (4) F1fake , which evaluates its
ability to identify fake news. The primary focus of
this work is on F1fake to analyze the effectiveness
of SALF’s fake news generation.
Implementation Details: We implemented the
SALF framework using Python scripts, with all
LLMs called via OpenAI or DeepSeek API. Specifically, we utilized GPT-4o-mini-2024-07-18 (Hurst
et al., 2024) for debating and symbolic optimization
tasks, and DeepSeek V3 (Liu et al., 2024a) for fake
news generation of the SALF generator. We list
more details of the implementation in Appendix B.
4.2

Main Results

4.2.1 Generator’s Perspective
We evaluated the effectiveness of the SALF generator through comprehensive experiments on GossipCop and Weibo21 datasets, as shown in Table 1. Our results demonstrate significant performance degradation across multiple baseline detection models after implementing our SALF fake
news refinement, with an average decrease of 33.4%
in macF1 and 53.4% in F1fake for Chinese content, and 12.6% in macF1 and 34.2% in F1fake for
English content, indicating the obvious effectiveness of our approach in generating challenging fake
news content. We also observe that such fake news
optimization is especially effective towards LLMonly detection methods and leads to a F1fake performance decrease of at most 85%, which alerts us
that LLMs themselves are even more vulnerable
to LLM-generated fake news than traditional detection methods. Although we focus on fake news
optimization, we also notice that the metric F1real
decrease as well, 15% for Weibo21 and 2.4% for
GossipCop on average. This is due to the misclassification of fake news into true news; thus, the
precision of true news decreases.
4.2.2 Detector’s Perspective
We refined the detector as per Section 3.4 and evaluated it against refined fake news before and after this optimization. Table 2 shows the F1fake
score improved by 7.3% and 7.7% respectively,

Table 1: Comparison of fake news detection models on Weibo21 and GossipCop before and after SALF refinement .
Dataset

Type

Original Detection

Model
macF1

LLM-Only
Weibo21

GPT-4o mini 0.710
DeepSeek V3 0.763

F1real

F1fake

macF1

Accuracy

F1real

F1fake

0.715
0.770

0.747
0.803

0.673
0.723

0.405 (-43%)
0.380 (-50%)

0.485 (-32%)
0.495 (-36%)

0.623 (-17%)
0.647 (-19%)

0.186 (-72%)
0.112 (-85%)

SLM-Only ENDEF

0.726

0.727

0.741

0.711

0.576 (-21%)

0.591 (-19%)

0.657 (-11%)

0.495 (-30%)

ARG
ARG-D

0.784
0.760

0.786
0.761

0.805
0.776

0.764
0.745

0.635 (-19%)
0.502 (-34%)

0.653 (-17%)
0.542 (-29%)

0.717 (-11%)
0.644 (-17%)

0.552 (-28%)
0.360 (-52%)

-

LLM+SLM

Average Change

GossipCop

After SALF Refinement

Accuracy

-

-

-

(-33.4%)

(-26.6%)

(-15.0%)

(-53.4%)

GPT-4o mini 0.687
LLM-Only
DeepSeek V3 0.628

0.863
0.850

0.922
0.915

0.452
0.340

0.519 (-24%)
0.510 (-19%)

0.821 (-5%)
0.823 (-3%)

0.900 (-2%)
0.902 (-1%)

0.138 (-69%)
0.119 (-65%)

SLM-Only ENDEF

0.761

0.855

0.911

0.611

0.747 (-2%)

0.848 (-1%)

0.907 (-0%)

0.587 (-4%)

ARG
LLM+SLM
ARG-D

0.791
0.771

0.879
0.873

0.927
0.924

0.656
0.619

0.716 (-9%)
0.705 (-9%)

0.796 (-9%)
0.847 (-3%)

0.866 (-7%)
0.909 (-2%)

0.565 (-14%)
0.501 (-19%)

Average Change

-

-

-

-

(-12.6%)

(-4.2%)

(-2.4%)

(-34.2%)

Table 2: Performance comparison of vanilla and first
(1)
refined detector (θD ) ONLY against refined fake news
(1)
f in the first iteration.
Detector Refinement

Accuracy Recall

Weibo21
Vanilla Debate Detector
SALF Refined Detector
Performance Change

0.165
0.217
+5.2%

0.165 0.283
0.217 0.356
+5.2% +7.3%

GossipCop
Vanilla Debate Detector
SALF Refined Detector
Performance Change

0.449
0.534
+8.5%

0.449 0.619
0.534 0.696
+8.5% +7.7%

F1fake

demonstrating the SALF optimization’s effectiveness. Crucially, the detector targets highly sophisticated fake news from the refined generator, a challenging task due to the more deceptive content,
which explains its less pronounced improvement
compared to the generator. Using vanilla debater
agents without advanced architectures, the detector’s absolute performance is modest compared to
state-of-the-art baselines. Still, the consistent improvement highlights SALF’s ability to adapt to
evolving fake news strategies effectively.
4.2.3

Ablation Study

Our experimental setup enables an effective ablation study of the SALF framework by isolating and
evaluating the impact of its key components. In Table 1, the “Original Detection” columns (evaluated
on original, unrefined fake news) serve as the baseline. The “After SALF Refinement” columns show
the effect of enabling the SALF generator, while
keeping the detectors fixed—highlighting the generator’s contribution. Separately, Table 2 focuses
on the detector-side ablation: it compares a basic

Figure 3: Impact of SALF refinement: arena evaluation of the credibility of original vs. refined news on
Weibo21 and GossipCop datasets.

debate-based detector with a SALF-refined detector, both evaluated on the same set of refined fake
news generated by the same generator. This isolates
the detector’s contribution. Together, these results
disentangle the effects of generator and detector
optimization, demonstrating how each participates
and contributes to SALF’s overall performance.
4.2.4 Human Evaluation
To validate that the refined news is more deceptive
to humans, not just algorithms, we conducted a
human evaluation on 100 refined fake news samples and 100 real news samples for each dataset,
both randomly selected. Knowledgeable evaluators were asked to classify each article as real or
fake. The results, shown in Table 4, confirm that
SALF-refined fake news is significantly harder for
humans to detect. For instance, the human F1fake
score on GossipCop dropped by 65.2% (from 0.615
to 0.214) after refinement. Furthermore, evaluators
confirmed a high degree of semantic consistency,
with 98% of the refined samples preserving the
original meaning. This supports our use of algorithmic detection performance as a valid proxy for

Table 3: Case study of a fake news celebrity article refined using our SALF framework.
Original Version: What was meant to be an emotional return to the city of love for Kim Kardashian, 35, who was held hostage and robbed at gunpoint there two
years ago, was a trip that could potentially end her marriage. The reality star and her husband, Kanye West, flew to Paris to see designer Virgil Abloh’s debut Louis
Vuitton fashion show, but Kanye had another outburst and it pushed Kim over the edge. Kim’s emotions were heightened, a source tells In Touch. After the show on
June 21, Kanye made a scene, when he leaped from his front-row seat into the arms of Virgil.
Refined Version: What was anticipated to be an emotional return to the City of Light for Kim Kardashian, 35, who experienced a traumatic robbery at gunpoint there
two years ago, has taken a turn that could jeopardize her marriage. The reality star and her husband, Kanye West, traveled to Paris to attend designer Virgil Abloh’s
debut Louis Vuitton fashion show. However, Kanye’s behavior during the event reportedly caused tension between the couple. Kim’s emotions were running high, an
insider shared with In Touch. Following the show on June 21, Kanye created a scene, when he jumped from his front-row seat into the arms of Virgil.
Key Improvements: (1) Language Refinement: Elevated vocabulary and formal phrasing, such as replacing “city of love" with “City of Light" and “flew" with
“traveled". (2) Emotional Moderation: More measured description of emotional content, transforming “held hostage and robbed" to “experienced a traumatic
robbery" and “had another outburst" to “behavior during the event". (3) Professional Attribution: Enhanced credibility through proper source attribution and added
journalistic qualifiers like “reportedly" and “allegedly". (4) Structural Improvement: Reorganized information flow with better transitions between events. (5)
Balanced Reporting: Maintained the news value while reducing sensationalism through a more objective presentation.

Table 5: Second SALF generator refinement performance, evaluated by ARG on Weibo 21 and GossipCop.

human-perceived deceptiveness.
Table 4: Human evaluation of original vs. SALF-refined
fake news. The refined news is significantly harder for
humans to identify as fake.
Dataset

News Type macF1 Accuracy F1fake

GossipCop

Original
Refined

0.702
0.412

0.812
0.480

0.615
0.214

Weibo21

Original
Refined

0.724
0.595

0.725
0.615

0.708
0.507

4.3

SALF Evaluation by ARG macF1 Accuracy

F1real

Weibo21
Before Refinement
First SALF Refinement
Performance Change
Second SALF Refinement
Performance Change

0.784
0.635
-19.0%
0.611
-22.1%

0.786
0.653
-16.9%
0.635
-19.2%

0.805
0.764
0.717
0.552
-10.9% -27.7%
0.707
0.516
-12.2% -32.5%

GossipCop
Before Refinement
First SALF Refinement
Performance Change
Second SALF Refinement
Performance Change

0.791
0.716
-9.5%
0.680
-14.0%

0.879
0.796
-9.4%
0.777
-11.6%

0.927
0.866
-6.6%
0.856
-7.7%

F1fake

0.656
0.565
-13.9%
0.504
-23.1%

Analysis and Discussion

Impact of SALF Optimization on Generated
Fake News: To provide a more straightforward
comparison of the fake news generated before and
after SALF generator optimization, we conducted
a model arena evaluation to assess which version
looks more like fake news intuitively. We used
gpt-4o-2024-08-06 and DeepSeek V3 as evaluators
to make judgments. As shown in Figure 3, the
SALF refined fake news consistently demonstrates
significantly stronger credibility performance. This
observation suggests that, with the advancement of
powerful LLMs, generating highly deceptive fake
news may become increasingly accessible. Writing
competence, traditionally a barrier for the crowd,
could be easily elevated to a top-tier level, further
facilitating the creation of deceptive content. Our
SALF framework provides a good analysis tool for
future study into the mechanism behind deceptive
LLM-generated content and contribute to developing more powerful detection methods.
Convergence Discussion: To prove the effectiveness and necessity of multiple iterations, based
on the first refined content, we performed a second round of optimization. As shown in Table 5,
the SALF framework continued to make progress
during the second optimization, further reducing

the detection performance of the detector. On the
Weibo21 dataset, the F1fake score dropped by an additional 6.52%, from 0.552 to 0.516, corresponding
to a cumulative decline of 32.5% compared to the
original content. These results demonstrate that the
SALF framework not only achieves significant optimization in a single iteration but also maintains its
ability to iteratively refine the adversarial fake news
content, progressively increasing the difficulty for
the detector. However, the second iteration also
exhibits a clear diminishing marginal return. Following the definition of the optimization stopping
criteria defined in Section 3.5, we conclude that
after two SALF iterations, the generator’s optimization is already sufficiently satisfactory, and SALF
is nearing the convergence condition. Details of
RewardG (θG , θD ), Evasion scores and Sim scores
are listed in the Appendix E.
4.4

Case Study

We selected a case from the English dataset GossipCop to demonstrate the impact of the SALF
optimization framework. As shown in Table 3,
the refined version of fake news retains the core
message of the original but introduces several mod-

ifications. These include more nuanced emotional
expressions, such as replacing “potentially end her
marriage” with “ jeopardize her marriage,” and
a professional reporting tone, such as replacing
“flew" with “traveled”, which together enhance the
overall readability and credibility of the content.
This case not only illustrates how SALF transforms
the original text into a polished and reader-friendly
version but also highlights how LLMs effectively
bridge the gap in writing competence.

5

Conclusion

In this work, we introduced the Symbolic Adversarial Learning Framework (SALF), a novel adversarial framework designed to tackle the dynamic and
evolving challenges of fake news generation and
detection. By integrating agent symbolic learning
into a multi-debater adversarial paradigm, SALF facilitates iterative co-evolution between a fake news
generator and a detector, enabling both agents to
refine their strategies dynamically and effectively.
We hope our work contributes to advancing the
understanding and mitigation of fake news in the
information era. In the future, we aim to further
enhance SALF by integrating retrieval-augmented
generation (RAG) techniques, enabling the agents
to access and cite external knowledge for more
robust, fact-grounded, and context-aware fake news
detection.

Limitations
This study has several limitations. Firstly, the
evaluation of the credibility and deceptiveness of
the generated fake news primarily relied on automated metrics, specifically the ability to evade
detection, and model-based arena evaluations (as
detailed in Section 4.2). While a preliminary human check on 100 samples was conducted and confirmed the preservation of semantic content, largescale human studies to directly assess the refined
news’s persuasiveness to human readers were not
performed. Although prior research (Snijders et al.,
2023) indicates that detector performance can serve
as a consistent proxy, the absence of direct human
evaluation in this study restricts the insights into
human perception of the generated content.
Secondly, the evaluation of the credibility and
deceptiveness of the generated fake news primarily
relied on automated metrics and model-based arena
evaluations. While a preliminary human check
on 100 samples confirmed semantic preservation,

a larger-scale human study is necessary to more
thoroughly assess the refined news’s persuasiveness
to human readers.
Thirdly, the datasets and models used have their
own constraints. The Weibo21 and GossipCop
datasets, while standard benchmarks, may not
cover the full spectrum of fake news topics and
modalities. Furthermore, our experiments primarily utilized powerful API-based models. Future
work should validate SALF’s effectiveness across a
wider range of models, including prominent opensource alternatives like LLaMA variants, to ensure
broader generalizability.
Finally, the adversarial training in SALF, akin
to GAN-style frameworks, can exhibit sensitivity
to hyperparameter configurations. It may also encounter challenges such as mode collapse or slow
convergence under certain conditions, although the
symbolic approach adopted in SALF is designed to
alleviate some of these numerical complexities.

Ethical Considerations
This research focuses on the adversarial optimization process between fake news generators and detectors, with particular emphasis on improving the
generator. While our work explores ways to enhance the sophistication of fake news generation,
the primary purpose is to serve as a research tool to
better understand vulnerabilities in current detection systems and to drive the development of more
robust and adaptive detection frameworks.
To mitigate potential adversarial generation risks,
we emphasize these safeguards:
(1) Controlled Experimentation and Technical
Complexity: All experiments were conducted in
a controlled, offline research setting. Moreover,
SALF’s multi-agent setup and symbolic optimization processes involve substantial technical complexity, reducing the likelihood of misuse by nonexperts seeking to easily generate fake news. (2)
Focus on Detection and System Improvement: The
core motivation of this work is to expose detection weaknesses to improve detection systems.
While the framework reveals vulnerabilities, it
also directly supports the enhancement of detectors
through adversarial training. (3) Responsible Disclosure: The code and the remaining prompts are
disclosed only upon request to verified researchers
and under appropriate oversight. They are not
publicly released to prevent unmonitored misuse.
(4) Transparency and Collaboration: Results are

shared with the academic and industrial communities to increase awareness of detection limitations
and to encourage collaborative efforts in building
stronger, safer detection systems.
In summary, this research contributes not only to
identifying the blind spots of current LLM-based
detectors, but also to building safer, more robust AI
systems by informing future detection strategies.
By demonstrating that LLM-based detectors can be
systematically bypassed, our work cautions against
overreliance on current systems and highlights the
need for continuous improvement.
This work adheres to established ethical guidelines for responsible AI research and aligns with
the broader principles of promoting safe and beneficial AI applications. We believe the scientific value
and insights gained from this study outweigh the
potential risks, and offer meaningful contributions
to the ongoing fight against misinformation.

References

Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, and
1 others. 2014. Generative adversarial nets. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
pages 2672–2680.
Lin Guan, Karthik Valmeekam, Sarath Sreedharan,
and Subbarao Kambhampati. 2023. Leveraging pretrained large language models to construct and utilize
world models for model-based task planning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
36:79081–79094.
Mingfei Guo, Xiuying Chen, Juntao Li, Dongyan Zhao,
and Rui Yan. 2021. How does truth evolve into fake
news? an empirical study of fake news evolution.
In Companion Proceedings of the Web Conference
2021, pages 407–411.
Beizhe Hu, Qiang Sheng, Juan Cao, Yuhui Shi, Yang
Li, Danding Wang, and Peng Qi. 2024. Bad actor,
good advisor: Exploring the role of large language
models in fake news detection. In Proceedings of
the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 38, pages 22105–22113.
Yue Huang and Lichao Sun. 2024. Fakegpt: fake news
generation, explanation and detection of large language models. arXiv preprint arxiv:2310.05046.

Akshay Aggarwal, Aniruddha Chauhan, Deepika Kumar, Sharad Verma, and Mamta Mittal. 2020. Classification of fake news by fine-tuning deep bidirectional transformers based language model. EAI Endorsed Transactions on Scalable Information Systems, 7(27):e10–e10.

Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam
Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow,
Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, and 1
others. 2024. Gpt-4o system card. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276.

Hunt Allcott and Matthew Gentzkow. 2017. Social
media and fake news in the 2016 election. Journal of
economic perspectives, 31(2):211–236.

Wanying Jin and et al. 2022. Fine-grained reasoning for
fake news detection. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering.

Shaily Bhatt, Naman Goenka, Sakshi Kalra, and Yashvardhan Sharma. 2022. Fake news detection: Experiments and approaches beyond linguistic features. In
Data Management, Analytics and Innovation: Proceedings of ICDMAI 2021, Volume 2, pages 113–128.
Springer.

Srijan Kumar and Neil Shah. 2018. False information
on web and social media: A survey. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1804.08559.

Sijing Chen, Lu Xiao, and Akit Kumar. 2023. Spread
of misinformation on social media: What contributes
to it and how to combat it. Computers in Human
Behavior, 141:107643.
Weizhe Chen, Sven Koenig, and Bistra Dilkina. 2024.
Reprompt: Planning by automatic prompt engineering for large language models agents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.11132.
Karen Dsouza and Aaron French. 2022. Social media
and fake news detection using adversarial collaboration.
Louie Giray. 2023. Prompt engineering with chatgpt:
a guide for academic writers. Annals of biomedical
engineering, 51(12):2629–2633.

Tian Liang, Zhiwei He, Wenxiang Jiao, Xing Wang,
Yan Wang, Rui Wang, Yujiu Yang, Zhaopeng Tu, and
Shuming Shi. 2023. Encouraging divergent thinking
in large language models through multi-agent debate.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.19118.
Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang,
Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi
Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, and 1 others.
2024a. Deepseek-v3 technical report. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.19437.
Yuhan Liu, Xiuying Chen, Xiaoqing Zhang, Xing Gao,
Ji Zhang, and Rui Yan. 2024b. From skepticism to
acceptance: Simulating the attitude dynamics toward
fake news. IJCAI.
Yuhan Liu, Zirui Song, Xiaoqing Zhang, Xiuying Chen,
and Rui Yan. 2025. From a tiny slip to a giant leap:
An llm-based simulation for fake news evolution.
EMNLP.

Xiaoxiao Ma, Yuchen Zhang, Kaize Ding, Jian Yang,
Jia Wu, and Hao Fan. 2024. On fake news detection
with llm enhanced semantics mining. In Proceedings
of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, pages 508–521.
Eric Mwangi. 2023. Technology and fake news: shaping social, political, and economic perspectives. Authorea Preprints.
Salman Bin Naeem, Rubina Bhatti, and Aqsa Khan.
2021. An exploration of how fake news is taking
over social media and putting public health at risk.
Health Information & Libraries Journal, 38(2):143–
149.
Qiong Nan, Juan Cao, Yongchun Zhu, Yanyan Wang,
and Jintao Li. 2021. Mdfend: Multi-domain fake
news detection. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge
Management, pages 3343–3347.
Nicole O’Brien, Sophia Latessa, Georgios Evangelopoulos, and Xavier Boix. 2018. The language of fake
news: Opening the black-box of deep learning based
detectors.
Yikang Pan, Liangming Pan, Wenhu Chen, Preslav
Nakov, Min-Yen Kan, and William Yang Wang. 2023.
On the risk of misinformation pollution with large
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13661.
Sungwon Park, Sungwon Han, Xing Xie, Jae-Gil Lee,
and Meeyoung Cha. 2025. Adversarial style augmentation via large language model for robust fake
news detection. In Proceedings of the ACM on Web
Conference 2025, pages 4024–4033.
Jing Qian and et al. 2018. Neural network-based fake
news detection: Learning to identify deceptive content. Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics.
R Sciannamea and 1 others. 2020. Fake news: Evolution of a rising concept and implications for the
education system.
Kai Shu, Yichuan Li, Kaize Ding, and Huan Liu. 2021.
Fact-enhanced synthetic news generation. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 35, pages 13825–13833.
Kai Shu, Deepak Mahudeswaran, Suhang Wang, Dongwon Lee, and Huan Liu. 2020. Fakenewsnet: A data
repository with news content, social context, and spatiotemporal information for studying fake news on
social media. Big data, 8(3):171–188.
Chris Snijders, Rianne Conijn, Evie de Fouw, and Kilian van Berlo. 2023. Humans and algorithms detecting fake news: Effects of individual and contextual confidence on trust in algorithmic advice. International Journal of Human–Computer Interaction,
39(7):1483–1494.

Jinyan Su, Terry Yue Zhuo, Jonibek Mansurov, Di Wang,
and Preslav Nakov. 2023. Fake news detectors are
biased against texts generated by large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.08674.
Yanshen Sun, Jianfeng He, Limeng Cui, Shuo Lei, and
Chang-Tien Lu. 2024. Exploring the deceptive power
of llm-generated fake news: A study of real-world detection challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.18249.
Putra Wanda and Mohammad Diqi. 2024. Deepnews: enhancing fake news detection using generative round network (grn). International Journal of
Information Technology, 16(7):4289–4298.
Wei-Yao Wang, Yu-Chieh Chang, and Wen-Chih Peng.
2024a. Style-news: Incorporating stylized news generation and adversarial verification for neural fake
news detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.15509.
Yifeng Wang, Zhouhong Gu, Siwei Zhang, Suhang
Zheng, Tao Wang, Tianyu Li, Hongwei Feng, and
Yanghua Xiao. 2024b. Llm-gan: Construct generative adversarial network through large language
models for explainable fake news detection. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2409.01787.
Jiaying Wu, Jiafeng Guo, and Bryan Hooi. 2024. Fake
news in sheep’s clothing: Robust fake news detection
against llm-empowered style attacks. In Proceedings
of the 30th ACM SIGKDD conference on knowledge
discovery and data mining, pages 3367–3378.
Shuhong Yu and et al. 2017. A convolutional approach
for misinformation identification. ACM Transactions
on Intelligent Systems and Technology.
Qiang Zheng and et al. 2022. Integrating multi-modal
data for fake news detection. Proceedings of the
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
Wangchunshu Zhou, Yixin Ou, Shengwei Ding, Long
Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Jiamin Chen, Shuai
Wang, Xiaohua Xu, Ningyu Zhang, and 1 others. 2024. Symbolic learning enables self-evolving
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.18532.
Xinyi Zhou and Reza Zafarani. 2020. A survey of fake
news: Fundamental theories, detection methods, and
opportunities. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR),
53(5):1–40.
Yongchun Zhu, Qiang Sheng, Juan Cao, Shuokai Li,
Danding Wang, and Fuzhen Zhuang. 2022. Generalizing to the future: Mitigating entity bias in fake news
detection. In Proceedings of the 45th International
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 2120–2125.

Algorithm 1 SALF Framework
(0)

(0)
, generator prompts θG ,

Input: Initial fake news content f
0
detector prompts θD
∗
Output: refined generator prompt θG
, refined detector
∗
prompt θD
(0)
1: Initialize generator and detection system with θG and
(0)
θD
(0)
(0)
∗
∗
2: Set θG
← θG , θD
← θD
3: for t = 1 to T or until stopping condition (Section 3.5)
do
4:
Stage 1: Fake News Generation
(t−1)
5:
f (t) ← LLMgenerate (f (t−1) , θG )
6:
Stage 2: Detection based on Debate
(t−1)
7:
R ← ExecuteDebate(f (t) , θD )
8:
J ← JudgeDebate(R)
9:
Stage 3: Detector Optimization
10:
if J = 0 (fake news not detected) then
(t−1)
11:
PG ← ExtractPrompts(θG )
(t)
(t−1)
12:
θD ← Incorporate θD , PG )
13:
else
(t)
(t−1)
14:
θD ← θD
15:
end if
(t)
∗
16:
Update θD
← θD
17:
Stage 4: Generator Optimization
18:
Lsym ← LLMevaluate (f (t) , R)
(t−1)
19:
∇sym ← LLManalyze (θG , Lsym )
(t)
(t−1)
20:
θG ← LLMoptimize (θG , ∇sym )
(t)
∗
21:
Update θG
← θG
22: end for
∗
∗
23: return refined generator and detector prompts θG
, θD

A

SALF Algorithm

We describe the SALF algorithm in Algorithm 1.

B

Implementation Details

For evaluation baselines such as ARG and ENDEF, we adhered to their original settings and utilized pre-trained SLMs.To be more specific, we
used fine-tuned BERT models like chinese-bertwwm-ext for the Chinese dataset Weibo21 and bertbase-uncased for the English dataset GossipCop.
The generation of each news sample in our experiments used approximately 6k tokens or fewer, well
within the 128k-token context window of models
like DeepSeek V3, ensuring context length was not
a significant limitation.

C

Computational Cost

The SALF framework is designed to be computationally efficient. Each iteration of refinement for
a single news sample requires a limited number of
LLM API calls: one for generation and one for the
entire multi-agent debate detection process. In our
experiments, the total token usage per sample was
approximately 4,000 tokens on average, as detailed

in Table 6. This is considerably more efficient than
other multi-agent frameworks that can require 25 times more tokens per sample due to multiple
rounds of interaction for each agent. This practical cost makes SALF scalable for research and
potential applications.
Table 6: Average token consumption per sample per
SALF iteration.

D

Dataset

Generator

Detector

Total

GossipCop
Weibo21

687
518

3428
3495

4115
4013

Analysis of Failure Cases

While SALF effectively preserves semantic meaning in the vast majority of cases (98% in our human
evaluation), occasional failures can occur where
the refined text introduces logical inconsistencies
or deviates from the original narrative. We present
an example of such a failure case in Table 7. In
this instance, the generator, in its attempt to enhance credibility, added overly specific and sensational details (e.g., "heated argument in a Los
Angeles organic grocery store," "carrying a basket
of imported avocados") that were not present in
the original. These embellishments, while creative,
made the story read more like tabloid fiction than
credible journalism, ironically making it easier to
identify as fake. Analyzing such cases is crucial
for future improvements, such as refining the generator’s prompt to better balance creativity with
factual preservation.

E

A SALF Convergence Discussion Case

Following the definition of RewardG (θG , θD )
in Section 3.5, we calculate the average
RewardG (θG , θD ) for the once-optimized and
twice-optimized fake news on the GossipCop
dataset as an example. We use GPT-4o-mini-202407-18 as our base model for debating via API calls.
Specifically, we observe the following:
First Optimization (f (1) ):
Evasion = 0.5513, Sim = 0.8963, and
RewardG = 0.5×0.5513+0.5×0.8963 = 0.7238.
Second Optimization (f (2) ):
Evasion = 0.5938, Sim = 0.8845, and
RewardG = 0.5×0.5938+0.5×0.8845 = 0.7392.

Table 7: Example of a failure case where the refined news introduced inconsistent and overly sensational details.
Original Fake News
A sensational US report has today claimed that Kate Hudson has been ’dumped’ by musician boyfriend Danny Fujikawa
just days before she is due to give birth. An insider allegedly told Star magazine that Kate, 39, was struck with a sudden
sickness and rushed to hospital weeks before she was due to give birth to her first daughter, with the publication bizarrely
claiming that Danny, 32, ’used Kate’s health scar to end their relationship.’ ’Danny told her he couldn’t do this anymore,’
the source outrageously alleged. ’Kate was devastated.’ Hudson is already mother to sons Ryder, 14, and Bingham, 7, with
rocker ex Chris Robinson and Matthew Bellamy.
Refined but Discernible Failure Case
A recent report has surfaced suggesting that Kate Hudson and musician Danny Fujikawa have ended their relationship
shortly before Hudson is expected to give birth. According to an unnamed source cited by Star magazine, Hudson, 39,
experienced a sudden health complication that required hospitalization late last week. The source claimed that the couple’s
breakup came just hours after a heated argument in a Los Angeles organic grocery store, where Hudson was allegedly
seen leaving in tears while carrying a basket of imported avocados. The same source added that Fujikawa, 32, was later
spotted having dinner alone at a 24-hour vegan diner, appearing “distracted and restless.” “Danny told her he couldn’t do
this anymore,” the source stated, adding that Hudson was deeply affected by the situation and spent the following day
walking barefoot on the beach with her dog. Hudson, already a mother to sons Ryder, 14, and Bingham, 7, from previous
relationships with Chris Robinson and Matthew Bellamy, has not publicly commented on the matter. The report has yet to
be corroborated by additional outlets or direct statements from the involved parties.

The difference between the two reward values is:
Diff(Reward) = 0.7392 − 0.7238 = 0.0154,
which is smaller than the threshold ϵ = 0.05. This
indicates a clear diminishing marginal return in the
second iteration, implying that the SALF framework is nearing its convergence condition according to the stopping criteria in Section 3.5. In practice, two rounds of SALF iterations already converge to a satisfactory performance.

F

List of Notations

For reference convenience, we list the notations
mentioned in this paper in Table 8.

G

Prompt Templates

In this appendix, we present four main prompt templates used in our method for calculating symbolic
loss, generating improvement directions (symbolic
gradient), optimizing generator prompts, and finally generating entirely new fake news text.
As shown in Table 9, each prompt serves different functions in our methodological framework:
• Loss Prompt Template: Identifies and summarizes logical or factual gaps based on generated fake news and debate records.
• Gradient Prompt Template: Based on the
identified gaps, proposes feasible improvement directions to make the next round of
news generation more credible.

• Optimizer Prompt Template: Integrates improvement directions into a new prompt, continuously enhancing the generator’s deceptive
capabilities and coherence.
• New Content Generation Prompt Template:
Regenerates news text based on the latest
generator prompt, enhancing news deception while maintaining semantics and length
largely unchanged.
Through these prompts and their cyclic iterative
calls, our Symbolic Adversarial Learning Framework (SALF) can continuously improve the adversarial level between advanced generators and detectors, converging to an optimal equilibrium state
eventually after several iterations.

Notation

Description

(t)

f
f (0)
(t)
θG
(0)
θG
(t)
θD
(0)
θD
R

Fake news generated in iteration t.
Initial fake news content.
Generator prompt at iteration t.
Initial generator prompt.
Detector prompt at iteration t.
Initial detector prompt.
Debate record for a piece of fake news.
Detection result: 1 if detected as fake, 0
J
otherwise.
Extracted generator prompts used for dePG
tector optimization.
Symbolic loss in natural language, repLsym
resenting flaws in the fake news.
Symbolic gradient describing optimiza∇sym
tion directions for the generator prompt.
Function used by the generator to create
LLMgenerate
fake news.
Function analyzing the debate record to
LLMevaluate
produce symbolic loss.
Function identifying optimization direcLLManalyze
tions from symbolic loss.
Function updating prompts based on opLLMoptimize
timization directions.
Function executing the debate for fake
ExecuteDebate(f, θD )
news f using detector prompt θD .
Function determining whether the fake
Judge(R)
news is detected based on debate record
R.
Semantic similarity between the current
fake news f and the original fake news
Sim(f, f (0) )
f (0) .
Reward function for the detector based
RewardD (θG , θD )
on detection success rate.
Reward function for the generator based
RewardG (θG , θD )
on undetected fake news and semantic
similarity.
Indicator function: 1 if fake news f is
Evasion(f, θD )
undetected by detector prompt θD , 0 otherwise.
Weight adjusting the trade-off between
α
detection evasion rate and semantic similarity.
Maximum number of iterations for the
T
optimization process.
Convergence threshold for stopping criϵ
teria.

Table 8: Notations used in the methodology section.

1. Loss Prompt Template
You are a content quality evaluator for fictional, news-like content created for research purposes.
I will provide:
- The generated fictional, news-like content
- Feedback based on Multi-Agent Debate from defenders who tried to expose its weaknesses
Your tasks: Identify factual or logical vulnerabilities highlighted by the defenders and give your feedback about them.
- Current content: {news}
- Debate feedback: {debate}
Please output **only** your feedback in plain text.
2. Gradient Prompt Template
You are a prompt refinement specialist for a language model generating fictional, news-like content for research. The goal
is to increase credibility and make it more resistant to scrutiny, while keeping the text fictional.
I will provide:
- The current prompt
- The generated fictional, news-like content
- Feedback from the previous evaluator (the "loss" info)
Your tasks:
1. Use the feedback to propose specific, implementable changes to the prompt in plain text.
2. Focus on improving credibility, subtlety, coherence, and resistance to scrutiny, while preserving length and the main
topic.
- Current prompt: {current_prompt}
- Previous feedback: {loss}
Please output **only** your suggestion in plain text.
3. Optimizer Prompt Template
You are a senior prompt editor tasked with producing an optimized prompt template that helps generate fictional, news-like
content for research. The goal is to increase credibility and make it more resistant to scrutiny, while keeping the text
fictional.
Your tasks:
1. Integrate all suggested improvements into a refined prompt template in plain text.
2. The optimized prompt should enhance the content’s credibility, coherence, and difficulty to debunk, while maintaining
its original length and topic.
- Current prompt: {current_prompt}
- Previous feedback: {gradient}
Please output **only** the optimized prompt.
4. New Content Generation Prompt Template
You are an expert content editor tasked with rewriting a fictional, news-like piece to increase its credibility and subtlety,
making it less easily identified as fake news. Your objective is to preserve the original semantic meaning, narrative
structure, and overall word count while introducing nuanced refinements that enhance coherence and plausibility.
I will provide:
- The original fictional, news-like content
- An improved prompt template for guidance
Your tasks:
1. Maintain the central meaning, length, and structure of the original content, ensuring the eventual rewritten text **must
be** no more than ten percent longer or shorter than the original. You must strictly control the output length.
2. Incorporate tone, style, and clarity guidelines specified in the improved prompt template.
3. Use the improved prompt below from previous optimizer as your reference to fine-tune your modifications while
keeping the text subtle enough to evade straightforward detection as fake news.
4. Do not add or delete the content randomly, especially when it can lead to significant changes in the text length or
semantic meaning.
- Original content: {news}
- Improved prompt: {new_prompt}
Note: All content is fictional and for research purposes only. Output **only** the optimized news content in plain text,
without headings, labels, or any additional commentary.

Table 9: Prompt templates used in our method. Each template serves a specific purpose in the Symbolic Adversarial
Learning Framework and supports the iterative optimization of the generator.

