Opportunities and Challenges for ChatGPT and Large Language
Models in Biomedicine and Health
Shubo Tian1, Qiao Jin1, Lana Yeganova1, Po-Ting Lai1, Qingqing Zhu1, Xiuying Chen2, Yifan Yang1,
Qingyu Chen1, Won Kim1, Donald C. Comeau1, Rezarta Islamaj1, Aadit Kapoor1, Xin Gao2, Zhiyong Lu1*

Affiliations:
1

National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health

2

King Abdullah University of Science and Technology

*Corresponding Author

Abstract
ChatGPT has drawn considerable attention from both the general public and domain experts
with its remarkable text generation capabilities. This has subsequently led to the emergence
of diverse applications in the field of biomedicine and health. In this work, we examine the
diverse applications of large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, in biomedicine and
health. Specifically we explore the areas of biomedical information retrieval, question
answering, medical text summarization, information extraction, and medical education, and
investigate whether LLMs possess the transformative power to revolutionize these tasks or
whether the distinct complexities of biomedical domain presents unique challenges.
Following an extensive literature survey, we find that significant advances have been made in
the field of text generation tasks, surpassing the previous state-of-the-art methods. For other
applications, the advances have been modest. Overall, LLMs have not yet revolutionized
biomedicine, but recent rapid progress indicates that such methods hold great potential to
provide valuable means for accelerating discovery and improving health. We also find that
the use of LLMs, like ChatGPT, in the fields of biomedicine and health entails various risks and
challenges, including fabricated information in its generated responses, as well as legal and
privacy concerns associated with sensitive patient data. We believe this survey can provide a
comprehensive and timely overview to biomedical researchers and healthcare practitioners
on the opportunities and challenges associated with using ChatGPT and other LLMs for
transforming biomedicine and health.
Keywords: ChatGPT, large language model, generative AI, biomedicine and health, opportunities and
challenges
1

1. Introduction
The recent release of ChatGPT [1] and the subsequent launch of GPT-4 [2] have captured massive
attention among both the general public and domain professionals and has triggered a new wave of
development of large language models (LLMs). LLMs such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 are language models that
have billions of parameters in model size and are trained with data sets containing tens or hundreds of
billions of tokens. They are considered as foundation models [3] that are pretrained on a large scale data
and can be adapted to different downstream tasks. LLMs have achieved impressive performance in a wide
range of applications in various fields including the biomedical and health domains. A keyword search of
“large language models” OR “ChatGPT” in PubMed returned 582 articles by the end of May 2023.
Moreover, the number of publications on the topic has grown exponentially from late 2022 and doubled
every month in the last six months, covering the technology and its implications for various biomedical
and health applications.
Furthermore, several biomedical specific LLMs have been developed by either training from scratch or
fine-tuning existing pre-trained LLMs with biomedical data [4-9]. To provide a comprehensive overview to
biomedical researchers and healthcare practitioners on the possible and effective utilization of ChatGPT
and other LLMs in our domain, we performed a literature survey, exploring their potentials in a wide
variety of different applications such as biomedical information retrieval, question answering, medical
text summarization, information extraction, and medical education. Additionally, we delve into the
limitations and risks associated with these language models.
Specifically, due to the remarkable language generation capabilities, our focus centers on ChatGPT and
other LLMs within the domain of generative artificial intelligence (AI). We searched articles containing
keywords related to large language models, such as “GPT”, “ChatGPT” or “large language model”, along
with keywords of biomedical applications on PubMed1, medRxiv2, arXiv3 and Google Scholar4, and
included the articles identified as relevant for our review. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
comprehensive survey of opportunities and challenges on ChatGPT and other LLMs for fundamental
applications in seeking information and knowledge discovery in biomedicine and health, although there
are several previous survey papers on general LLMs [10, 11] and use of ChatGPT for different specific
health applications [12-14]. By discussing the capabilities and limitations of ChatGPT and LLMs, we strive
to unlock their immense potential in addressing the current challenges within the fields of biomedicine
and health. Furthermore, we aim to highlight the role of these models in driving innovation and ultimately
improving healthcare outcomes.

1

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/
https://www.medrxiv.org/
3
https://arxiv.org/
4
https://scholar.google.com/
2

2

2. Overview ChatGPT and Domain-specific LLMs
2.1.

Overview of General LLMs

A language model (LM) is a statistical model that computes the (joint) probability of a sequence of words
(or tokens). Research on language models has been going on for a long period of time [15]. In 2017 the
transformer model introduced by Vaswani et al. [16] became the foundational architecture for most
modern language models including ChatGPT. The transformer architecture includes an encoder of
bidirectional attention blocks and a decoder of unidirectional attention blocks. Based on the modules used
for model development, most recent LMs can be grouped into three categories: encoder-only LMs such
as BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) [17] and its variants, decoder-only
LMs such as the GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) family [18-20] and encoder-decoder LMs such
as T5 (Text-to-Text Transfer Transformer) [21] and BART (Bidirectional and AutoRegressive Transformers)
[22]. Encoder-only and encoder-decoder language models are usually trained with an infilling (“masked
LM” or “span corruption”) objective along with an optional downstream task, while decoder-only LMs are
trained with autoregressive language models that predict the next token given the previous tokens.
Although the encoder-only and encoder-decoder models have achieved state-of-the-art performance
across a variety of natural language processing (NLP) tasks, they have the downside that requires
significant amount of task-specific data for fine-tuning the model to adapt to the specific tasks. This
process needs to update the model parameters and adds complexity to model development and
deployment.
Unlike those models, when GPT-3 [19] was released, it demonstrated that large decoder-only language
models trained on large text corpus gained significantly increased capability [23] for natural language
generation. After training, the models can be directly applied to various unseen downstream tasks
through in-context learning such as zero-shot, one-shot or few-shot prompting [19]. This led to a recent
trend toward development of decoder-only LLMs in the following years. Following GPT-3, a number of
powerful LLMs such as PaLM [24], Galactica [25], and the most recent GPT-4 [2], have been developed.
For more information on these general-domain models, readers are invited to consult [10, 11].
While LLMs are powerful, they are still likely to produce content that is toxic, biased, or harmful for
humans since the large corpus used for model training could contain both high-quality and low-quality
data. Thus, it is extremely important to align LLMs to generate outputs that are helpful, honest, and
harmless for their human users. To achieve this, Ouyang et al. [26] designed an effective approach of finetuning with human feedback to fine-tune GPT-3 into the InstructGPT model. They first fine-tuned GPT-3
on a dataset of human-written demonstrations of the desired output to prompts using supervised
learning, then further fine-tuned the supervised model through reinforcement learning from human
feedback (RLHF). This process was referred as alignment tuning. It was also applied in the development
process of ChatGPT and became an effective practice for development of faithful LLMs.
With model size growing bigger, fine-tuning LLMs for downstream tasks becomes inefficient and costly.
Alternatively, prompt engineering serves as the key to unlock the power of LLMs given their strong incontext learning ability. As demonstrated by GPT-3, large language models were able to achieve promising
performance on a wide range of natural language tasks through in-context learning by prompting that
3

used a natural language instruction with or without demonstration examples as prompt for the model to
generate expected outputs. Wei et al. [27] showed that chain-of-thought prompting through a series of
intermediate reasoning steps was able to significantly improve LLMs’ performance on complex arithmetic,
common sense, and symbolic reasoning tasks. As a useful approach, designing prompts suitable for
specific tasks through prompt engineering became an effective strategy to elicit the in-context learning
ability of LLMs. The process of training, fine-tuning with human feedback, and unlocking power of LLMs
through prompt engineering becomes the paradigm of LLMs as shown in Figure 1.

Figure 1. The paradigm of LLMs. Pre-training: LLMs are trained on large scale corpus using
autoregressive language model; Instruction Fine-tuning: pre-trained LLMs are fine-tuned on a dataset of
human-written demonstrations of the desired output behavior on prompts using supervised learning;
RLHF Fine-tuning: a reward model is trained using collected comparison data, then the supervised model
is further fine-tuned against the reward model using reinforcement learning algorithm.

2.2.

LLMs for Biomedical and Health Applications

Development of LLMs has been steadily setting new state-of-the-art performance on a variety of tasks in
general NLP as well as in biomedical NLP specifically [8, 26, 28-30]. An example is the performance of LLMs
on the MedQA dataset, a widely used biomedical question answering dataset that comprises questions in
the style of the US Medical Licensing Exam (USMLE) and is used for evaluation of LLMs’ reasoning
capabilities. In less than half a year, LLM performance has approached a level close to human expert by
Med-PaLM 2 [30] from the level of human passing by GPT-3.5 [31], as depicted in Figure 2. These
achievements have been accomplished by adapting the LLMs for biomedical QA through different
strategies.

4

Figure 2. Performance of LLMs vs. human on the MedQA (USMLE) dataset in terms of accuracy.

There are several strategies that can be applied to adapt ChatGPT and other LLMs for specific applications
in biomedicine and health. When a large amount of data as well as more computing resources and
expertise are available, domain specific language models can be developed by pre-training from scratch
or from checkpoints of existing general language models. Alternatively, strategies such as fine-tuning with
task specific data, instruction fine-tuning and/or RLHF fine-tuning, soft prompt tuning, and prompt
engineering can be employed to adapt existing pre-trained language models to specific domain
applications. Explanation of these strategies and corresponding examples are listed as follows.

▪

▪

▪

Pre-training from scratch is to create a specialized language model by pre-training the language
model with randomly initialized parameters on a large biomedical corpus using the training
objective of either infilling (“masked LM” or “span corruption”) or an autoregressive language
model. Both BioMedLM [6] and BioGPT [7] are specialized biomedical language models developed
by pre-training on a corpus of PubMed articles from scratch.
Pre-training from checkpoints of existing general LMs is to develop a specialized language model
by initializing its parameters from the checkpoint of an existing general language model and
further pre-training the model on a biomedical corpus with the infilling or autoregressive language
model training objectives. The PMC-LLaMA [9] is a model developed by further pre-training the
LLaMA-7B [32] model on PubMed Central articles.
Fine-tuning with task specific data has been frequently used to adapt relatively smaller LMs for
specific downstream tasks. This strategy is to fine-tune the existing LMs on the training data of a
downstream task with the same training objective of the task. The developers of BioGPT [7] also
fine-tuned BioGPT on task specific data after it was pre-trained from scratch.

5

▪

▪

▪

Instruction fine-tuning and/or RLHF fine-tuning is the strategy for aligning LLMs with better
instruction responses by fine-tuning the model on data of instruction-response pairs through
supervised learning and/or reinforcement learning. Several LLMs including Med-PaLM 2 [30],
Clinical Camel [33], ChatDoctor [34], and MedAlpaca [35] have been developed through
instruction fine-tuning.
Soft prompt tuning is the learning of soft prompt vectors that can be used as prompts to LLMs
for specific downstream tasks. It is a strategy to take advantage of the benefit from gradientbased learning through a handful of training examples while keeping parameters of the LLMs
frozen. The model of Med-PaLM [8] is the result of adapting Flan-PaLM [36] to the biomedical
domain through soft prompt tuning.
Prompt engineering is the process of designing appropriate prompts to adapt LLMs for specific
downstream tasks by leveraging the powerful in-context learning capabilities of LLMs without the
need of gradient-based learning. Various prompt engineering techniques have been developed
and applied for adapting LLMs to biomedical and health related tasks.

Although previous research has shown that language models pre-trained with biomedical domain specific
data can benefit various in-domain downstream tasks [37-39], pre-training a language model from scratch
or existing checkpoint can be very costly, especially when the sizes of language models growing larger.
Adapting LLMs through instruction fine-tuning, soft prompt tuning and prompt engineering can be more
cost effective and accessible. In addition, while the strategies listed above can be employed
independently, they can also be applied in combination when applicable.
The advances of LLMs in recent years have led to development of a number of specialized biomedical
LLMs such as BioMedLM [6], BioGPT [7], PMC-LLaMA [9], Med-PaLM [8], Med-PaLM 2 [30], Clinical Camel
[33], ChatDoctor [34], and MedAlpaca [35]. Uses of general LLMs including GPT-3 [19], GPT-3.5 [31],
ChatGPT [1], GPT-4 [29], Flan-PaLM [8], and Galactica [25] for biomedical applications are being
extensively evaluated. Table 1 provides a list of domain specific LLMs [6-9, 30, 33-35, 40-46]. Performances
of various LLMs on different biomedical application tasks are described in Section 3.

Table 1. Specialized LLMs in biomedical and health fields.
LLM
BioMedLM

Size
2.7B

BioGPT

347M and
1.5B

PMC-LLaMA

7B

Description
Developed based on HuggingFace's implementation of the
GPT-2 model with small changes through pre-training from
scratch on data of 16 million PubMed Abstracts and 5 million
PubMed Central full-text articles contained in the Pile
dataset [40]
Developed based on the GPT-2 architecture through pretraining from scratch on a corpus of 15 million PubMed
articles that have both title and abstract
Developed by further pre-training from the LLaMA 7B model
on 4.9 million PubMed Central articles filtered from the
S2ORC Datasets [41] for only 5 epochs
6

Med-PaLM 2

N/a

Clinical Camel

13B

ChatDoctor

7B

MedAlpaca

7B and 13B

Med-PaLM

540B

Developed by instruction fine-tuning of PaLM 2 [42] based
on a data mixture of medical question answering datasets
including MedQA [43], MedMCQA [44], HealthSearchQA [8],
LiveQA [45] and MedicationQA [46]
Developed by instruction fine-tuning of the LLaMA 13B
model on general multi-step conversations in the ShareGPT5
data and synthetic dialogues transformed from the MedQA
data and clinical review articles
Developed by instruction fine-tuning of the LLaMA 7B model
on more than 100,000 real-world patient-physician
conversations collected from two online medical
consultation sites
Developed by instruction fine-tuning of the LLaMA 7B and
13B models on the Medical Meadow data, a collection of
reformatted instruction-response pairs including datasets
for medical NLP tasks and data crawled from various
internet resources
Developed by adapting Flan-PaLM to medical domain
through instruction prompt tuning on 40 examples

3. Applications of ChatGPT and LLMs in Biomedicine and Health
ChatGPT and other LLMs can be used in a wide range of biomedical and health applications. In this survey,
we cover applications that are fundamental in satisfying information needs of clinical decision making and
knowledge acquisition, including biomedical information retrieval, question answering, medical text
summarization, information extraction, and medical education.

3.1.

Information Retrieval

Information retrieval (IR) is an integral part in clinical decision making [47] and biomedical knowledge
acquisition [48], as it covers various information-seeking behaviors such as literature search [49], question
answering [50], and article recommendation [51]. Large language models like ChatGPT hold significant
potentials in changing the way people interact with medical information online [52].
First and foremost, current LLMs may not be directly used as a search engine because their output can
contain fabricated information, commonly known as the hallucination issue. For example, when prompted
“Could you tell me what’s the relation between p53 and depression? Please also provide the references
by PMIDs.”, ChatGPT makes up the content of PMID 25772646 (Perspectives on thyroid hormone action
in adult neurogenesis) to support its incorrect answers. This behavior makes retrieving out-of-context
knowledge from ChatGPT potentially dangerous by leading the users to draw incorrect conclusions.

5

https://sharegpt.com/

7

However, LLMs might facilitate the interpretation of traditional IR systems by text summarization. It is
also been shown by several pilot studies in biomedicine that when LLMs are provided with enough
contexts and background information, they can be very effective at reading comprehension [8, 31] and
could generate fluent summaries with high fidelity [53]. These results suggest that ChatGPT might be able
to summarize the information returned by a traditional IR system and provide a high-level overview or a
direct answer to users’ queries. Many search engines have integrated LLMs into their result page. For
example, You.com and the New Bing provide ChatGPT-like interactive agents that are contextualized on
the web search results to help users navigate them; scite.ai presents LLM-generated summaries with
references linked to the retrieved articles for literature search results. While afore-mentioned features
are potentially beneficial for all IR systems, researchers have cautioned that the generated outputs must
be carefully verified. Although LLMs can summarize in-context information with high fidelity, there is no
guarantee that such summaries are error-free [54].
LLMs like ChatGPT can also be used for query enrichment and improving search results with generating
more specific queries, expanding a user’s search query to include additional relevant terms, concepts, or
synonyms that may improve the accuracy and relevance of the search results. For instance, Wang et al.
[55] used ChatGPT to formulate and refine Boolean queries for systematic reviews. They created an
extensive set of prompts to investigate tasks on over 100 systematic review topics. Their experiments
were conducted on two benchmarking collections: the CLEF technological assisted review (TAR) datasets
[56-58] and the Systematic Review Collection with Seed studies [59]. The ChatGPT-generated queries
were compared to the original queries, the Baseline Conceptual and Objective. Evaluation was performed
using precision, recall, and F1 and F3 score metrics. Their results show that the ChatGPT-generated
queries have higher precision, but lower recall compared to the queries generated by the current stateof-the-art method [55].

3.2.

Question Answering

Question answering (QA) denotes the task of automatically answering a given question. In biomedicine,
QA systems can be used to assist clinical decision support, create medical chatbots, and facilitate
consumer health education [50]. Based on whether the supporting materials are available, QA tasks can
be broadly classified into open(-domain) QA and machine reading comprehension. In open QA, only the
question is provided (e.g., a consumer health search query), and a model needs to use external or internal
knowledge to answer the question. In machine reading comprehension, both the question and the
material for answering the question are available, e.g., in the case where doctors ask questions about
specific clinical notes.
A wide variety of biomedical QA datasets have been introduced over the past decade, including BioASQ
[60, 61], MedMCQA [44], MedQA (USMLE) [43], PubMedQA [62], GeneTuring [63]. MedMCQA and
MedQA are general medical knowledge tests in US medical licensing exam (USMLE) and Indian medical
entrance exams, respectively. Both datasets are open-domain tasks where only the question and 4-5
answer options are available. In contrast, the questions and answers in GeneTuring are in the genomics
domain such as gene name conversion and nucleotide sequence alignment. On the other hand, BioASQ
and PubMedQA provide relevant PubMed articles as supporting materials to answer the given question.
The biomedical QA tasks are evaluated using the classification accuracy of the possible answers (4-5
8

provided options for MedMCQA and MedQA (USMLE), entities for GeneTuring, yes/no for BioASQ, and
yes/no/maybe for PubMedQA).
Table 2 shows the performance of LLMs on three commonly used biomedical QA tasks. Overall, the best
results are achieved by either Med-PaLM 2 (on MedQA and PubMedQA) or GPT-4 (on MedMCQA), which
are currently the largest LLMs containing hundreds of billions of parameters. Notably, they achieve
comparable performance on the MedQA dataset and higher performance on the PubMedQA dataset in
comparison to the human expert. FLAN-PaLM and GPT-3.5 also achieve high scores on PubMedQA, but
are much worse than Med-PaLM 2 and GPT-4 on the MedQA and MedMCQA datasets. This is probably
because PubMedQA mainly requires the reading comprehension capability (reasoning), while the other
open QA datasets require both reasoning and knowledge. However, smaller LLMs (<10B), such as
BioMedLM and PMC-LLaMA, perform similarly to DRAGON [64], a BERT-sized SOTA model enhanced by
domain knowledge. This suggests that auto-regressive LLMs could scale to large enough model sizes to
outperform smaller models augmented by structured domain knowledge.

Table 2. Performance of LLMs on biomedical QA tasks.
Model

Learning

MedQA (USMLE)
87.0

PubMedQA
(r.r./r.f.)
78.0 / 90.4

MedMCQA
(dev/test)
90.0

Human expert [31]

-

Human passing [31]

-

60.0

-

50.0

Med-PaLM 2 [30]

Mixed

86.5*

81.8 / -

72.3* / -

GPT-4 [29]

Few-shot

86.1

80.4 / -

73.7 / -

FLAN-PaLM [8]

Few-shot

67.6

79.0 / -

57.6 / -

GPT-3.5 [31]

Few-shot

60.2

78.2 /-

59.7 / 62.7

Galactica [25]

Mixed

44.4

77.6* / -

52.9* / -

BioMedLM [6]

Fine-tune

50.3

74.4 / -

-

BioGPT [7]

Fine-tune

-

- /81.0

-

PMC-LLaMA [9]

Fine-tune

44.7

69.5 / -

- / 50.5

Non-LLM SOTA [64]
Fine-tune
47.5
73.4 / Note: All numbers are accuracy in percentages. Underscored numbers denote the highest performance.
*Fine-tuning. r.r.: reasoning-required; r.f.: reasoning-free.

Answering biomedical questions requires up-to-date and accurate knowledge. To address the
hallucination issue [65] in medical QA systems, one of the current solutions is retrieval augmentation,
which refers to the approach of combining LLMs with a search system, such as the New Bing for the
general domain and Almanac [66] in the clinical domain. For a given question, the system will first retrieve
relevant documents as supporting materials, and then prompt LLMs to answer the question based on the
retrieved documents. In this case, LLMs might generate less hallucinations since they are good at
summarizing content. However, such systems are still not free from errors [54] and there is a need for
more systematic evaluations [52]. Another promising direction for tackling the hallucination issue is to
9

augment LLMs with additional tools [67-70]. For example, the GeneTuring dataset contains informationseeking questions for specific SNPs such as rs745940901. However, auto-regressive LLMs possess no
knowledge about that SNP and most commercial search engines return no results to this query, so
retrieval-augmentation might not work either. In this case, the information source is only accessible via
the NCBI dbSNP database, and augmenting LLMs with NCBI Web database utility APIs can potentially
solve the hallucination issue with regard to specific entities in biomedical databases [67].
Consumers have been relying on web search engines like Google for their medical information needs [71].
It is conceivable that they might turn to LLM chatbots because the dialogue interface can directly answer
their questions and follow-ups. In fact, there has already been several studies, such as Clinical Camel [33],
DoctorGLM [72], ChatDoctor [34], HuaTuo [73], MedAlpaca [35], that attempt to create clinical chatbots
by instruction fine-tuning open source LLMs (e.g., LLaMA) on biomedical corpora. However, most of such
studies only use small private datasets for evaluation, and the accuracy, generalizability, and actual utility
of such dialogue systems remains unclear.

3.3.

Biomedical Text Summarization

Text summarization in the biomedical and health fields is an important application of natural language
processing and machine learning. This process involves condensing lengthy medical texts into shorter,
easy-to-understand summaries without losing critical information. Summarization in the medical field can
be particularly challenging due to the complexity of the language, terminology, and concepts. In this
section, we will introduce three application scenarios for text summarization in biomedicine: literature
summarization, radiology report summarization, and clinical note summarization.
The first important application is medical literature summarization [74]. A well-summarized literature
review can help in condensing a large volume of information into a concise, readable format, making it
easier for readers to grasp the key findings and conclusions. Towards this goal, Cohan et al. [75] introduced
a scholar paper summarization task, where they proposed a large-scale dataset of long and structured
scientific papers obtained from PubMed, where the abstracts are regarded as the summary of the paper.
Pang et al. [76] achieved state-of-the-art performance on this dataset with top-down and bottom-up
inference technique. Taking a step from paper summarization to literature summarization, Chen et al. [77]
proposed a related work generation task, where the related work section is considered as the literature
review for the specific field. With the development of LLMs, it is expected that more related documents
can be considered [78], and better evaluation metrics can be proposed to evaluate the quality of
summaries [79].
We next examine how summarization techniques can help medical applications such as radiology report
summarization [80]. This is the process of condensing lengthy and detailed radiology reports into concise,
informative, and easily understandable summaries. Radiology reports contain critical information about
a patient's medical imaging results, such as X-rays, CT scans, MRI scans, and ultrasound examinations.
Representative datasets include MIMIC-CXR [81], which is a large-scale radiography dataset comprising
473,057 chest X-ray images and 206,563 reports. Hu et al. [80] utilized an anatomy-enhanced multimodal
model to achieve state-of-the-art results in terms of the ROUGE and CheXbert [82] metrics. In the era of
LLMs, Ma et al. [83] proposed ImpressionGPT, which leverages the in-context learning capability of LLMs

10

for radiology report summarization. Wang and colleagues proposed ChatCAD [84], a framework that
summarizes and reorganizes information from radiology report to support query-aware summarization.
Finally, clinical notes summarization [85] aims to summarize other non-radiology clinical notes, which
helps doctors and other healthcare professionals quickly grasp the essential information about a patient's
condition, treatments, and progress. While radiology report summarizations are more focused, delivering
insights based on imaging studies, clinical note summarization involves summarizing the overall status,
progress, and plan for a patient based on various clinical observations, examinations, and patient
interactions [86]. McInerney et al. proposed and evaluated models that extract relevant text snippets
from patient records to provide a rough case summary [87]. Recently, Peng et al. demonstrated that while
ChatGPT can condense pre-existing systematic reviews, it frequently overlooks crucial elements in the
summary, particularly failing to mention short-term or long-term outcomes that are often associated with
different levels of risk [88]. Patel and Lam [89] discussed the possibility of using an LLM to generate
discharge summaries, and Tang et al. [90] tested performance of ChatGPT on their in-house medical
evidence dataset. As a concluding work, Ramprasad et al. discussed the current challenges in summarizing
evidence from clinical notes [91].

3.4.

Information Extraction

Information extraction involves extracting specific information from unstructured biomedical text data
and organizing the extracted information into structured format. The two most studied IE tasks are (a)
named entity recognition (NER): recognizing biological and clinical entities (e.g., diseases) asserted in the
free text; and (b) relation extraction (RE): extracting relations between entities in the free text.
Pre-trained language models have been widely used in NER and RE methods. The encoder-only LMs such
as BERT are typically fine-tuned with annotated data via supervised learning before being applied for NER
and RE tasks. Instead, using decoder-only LMs for NER and RE will usually model them as text generation
tasks to directly generate the entities and the relation pairs. Current state-of-the-art (SOTA) NER and RE
performance were mostly achieved by models based on encoder-only LMs that were pre-trained on
biomedical and clinical text corpus [92, 93] or machine learning method [94].
Recently, several studies have been conducted to explore the use of GPT-3 and ChatGPT for biomedical
NER and RE tasks. For example, Agrawal et al. [95] used GPT-3 for NER task on the CASI dataset and
showed that GPT-3 was able to outperform the baseline model by observing a single input-output pair.
Caufield et al. [96] developed SPIRES by recursively querying GPT-3 to obtain responses and achieved an
F1-score of 40.65% for RE on the BC5CDR dataset [94] using zero-shot learning without fine-tuning on the
training data. Gutiérrez et al. [97] used 100 training examples to explore GPT-3’s in-context learning for
biomedical information extraction and discovered that GPT-3 outperformed PubMedBERT, BioBERT-large,
and ROBERTa-large in few-shot settings on several biomedical NER and RE datasets. A benchmark study
conducted by Chen et al. [98] employed prompt engineering method to evaluate ChatGPT’s performance
on biomedical NER and RE in the BLURB benchmark datasets including BC5CDR-chemical [94], BC5CDRdisease [94], NCBI-disease [99], BC2GM [100], JNLPBA [101], ChemProt [102], DDI [103], and GAD [104] in
a zero-shot or few-shot manner. Chen et al. [105] performed a pilot study to establish the baselines of
using GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 for biomedical NER and RE at zero-shot and one-shot settings. They selected 180
examples with entities or relations and 20 examples without entities or relations from each of the
11

BC5CDR-chemical, NCBI-disease, ChemProt and DDI datasets and designed consistent prompts to
evaluate the performance of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. Table 3 and Table 4 summarize performance of different
LMs on some commonly used NER and RE benchmark datasets.

Table 3. Performance of LLMs for NER compared to SOTA on selected datasets (F1-score in %).
Language
Model
SOTA

84.52

BC5CDRchemical
93.33

BC5CDRdisease
85.62

41.40

73.00

43.60

JNLPBA

NCBIdisease
87.82

Method

BC2GM

GPT-3

Task finetuning
Few-shot

GPT-3.5

Zero-shot

29.25

24.05

One-shot

18.03

12.73

ChatGPT
GPT-4

Zero-shot or
few-shot
Zero-shot

37.54

60.30

One-shot

51.77

79.10

51.40

41.25

50.49

74.43

56.73

82.07

48.37

Table 4. Performance of LLMs for RE compared to SOTA on selected datasets (F1-score in %).
LM

Method

BC5CDR

CHEMPROT

DDI

GAD

SOTA

Task fine-tuning

57.03

77.24

82.36

83.96

BioGPT

46.17

GPT-3

Task fine-tuning
and few-shot
Few-shot

SPIRES

Zero-shot

40.65

GPT-3.5
ChatGPT
GPT-4

40.76
25.90

16.10

Zero-shot

57.43

33.49

One-shot

61.91

34.40

Zero-shot or
few-shot
Zero-shot

34.16

51.62

66.18

63.25

One-shot

65.43

65.58

66.00

52.43

The drawback of models achieving SOTA NER and RE performance is their need of labeled data. The
remarkable in-context learning abilities of LLMs such as ChatGPT exhibited great potential and provided
significant advantages for biomedical NER and RE in circumstances where labeled data are not available.
However, they are still not able to surpass performance of LMs that are fine-tuned on task specific
datasets. In addition, several challenges still exist in the use of ChatGPT and other LLMs for information
extraction. The generative outputs of ChatGPT and other LLMs sometimes will re-phrase the identified
entities or predicted relations which make them difficult to verify. ChatGPT and other LLMs can also
produce entities and relations that sound plausible but not factually true. Searching for prompts that are
12

appropriate for NER and RE can be challenging as well. Given all these challenges, extensive research is
needed to explore effective approaches to leverage ChatGPT and other LLMs for biomedical information
extraction.

3.5.

Medical Education

The use of LLMs in medical education is an exciting and rapidly growing area of research and development.
In particular, LLMs have a potential to mature into education applications and provide alternative learning
avenues for students to help them acquire and retain knowledge more efficiently.
One of the attractive features of ChatGPT is its ability to interact in a conversational way [106]. The
dialogue format makes it possible for ChatGPT to answer follow-up questions and communicate in a
conversational format. An early application of ChatGPT in education is a pilot study conducted by Khan
academy [107]. Although the application is not in healthcare education, but in general education for
students in grades K-12, it is an illustration of the model’s integration in educational environment.
Khanmigo, a real-time chat bot, analyzes the answers, and guides the student towards the solution by
asking questions and providing encouragement.
In addition, ChatGPT is equipped with the ability to provide insights and explanations, suggesting that
LLMs may have the potential to become interactive medical education tools to support learning. One of
the features making them suitable for education is their ability to answer questions and provide learning
experiences for individual students, helping them learn more efficiently and effectively.
ChatGPT can also be used for generating case scenarios [108, 109] or quizzes to help medical students
practice and improve their diagnostic and treatment planning abilities [110]. For example, the author in
[109], engages in a dialog with a chatbot, asking it to simulate a patient with undiagnosed diabetes and
the common labs that may need to be run.
LLMs can also be used to help medical students improve their communication skills. By analyzing natural
language inputs and generating human-like responses, LLMs can help students practice their
communication skills in a safe and controlled environment. For example, an LLM might be used to simulate
patient interactions, allowing students to practice delivering difficult news or explaining complex medical
concepts in a clear and concise manner.

4. Limitations and Risks of LLMs
While LLMs like ChatGPT demonstrate powerful capabilities, these models are not without limitations. In
fact, the deployment of LLMs in high-stakes applications, particularly within the biomedical and health
domain, presents challenges and potential risks. The limitations, challenges, and risks associated with
LLMs have been extensively discussed in previous research [19, 111, 112], and in this survey, we will
specifically focus on those relevant to the context of biomedical and health domains.

13

4.1.

Hallucination

All language models have the tendency to hallucinate – produce content that may seem plausible but is
not correct. When such content is used for providing medical advice or in clinical decision making the
consequence can be particularly harmful and even disastrous. The potential danger associated with
hallucinations can become more serious as the capabilities of LLMs continue to advance, resulting in more
convincing, persuasive and believable hallucinations. These systems are known to lack transparency –
inability to relate to the source, which creates a barrier for using the provided information. For health care
professionals to use LLMs in support of their decision making, great caution should be exercised to verify
the generated information.
Another concern is that LLMs may not be able to capture the full complexity of medical knowledge and
clinical decision-making or produce erroneous results. While LLMs can analyze vast amounts of data and
identify patterns, they may not be able to replicate the nuanced judgment and experience of a human
clinician. The usage of non-standard terminologies presents an additional complication.

4.2.

Fairness and Bias

In recent years, fairness has gained the attention of ML research communities as a crucial consideration
for both stable performance and unbiased downstream prediction. Many studies have shown that
language models can amplify and perpetuate biases [2, 113] because they learned from historical data.
This may inadvertently perpetuate biases and inequalities in healthcare. In a recent study, researchers
show that text generated with GPT-3 can capture social bias [114]. Although there exists a lot of research
in the general domain regarding fairness in ML and NLP including gender and racial bias, little work has
been done in biomedical domain. Many current datasets do not have demographic information, as this
relates to privacy concerns in medical practices. Unfair and biased model in the biomedical and health
domain can lead to detrimental outcomes and affect the quality of treatment a patient receives [115117].

4.3.

Privacy

The corpora used for LLMs training usually contain a variety of data from various sources, which may
include private personal information. Huang et al. [118] found that LMs can leak personal information. It
was also reported that GPT-4 has the potential to be used for attempt to identify private individuals and
associate personal information such as geographic location and phone number [112]. Biomedical and
clinical text data used for training LLMs may contain patient information and pose serious risks to patient
privacy. LLMs deployed for biomedical and health applications can also present risks to patient privacy, as
they may have access to patient characteristics, such as clinical measurements, molecular signatures, and
sensory tracking data.

14

4.4.

Legal and Ethical Concerns

Debates on legal and ethical concerns of using AI for medicine and healthcare have been carried out
continuously in recent years [119]. The widespread interests in ChatGPT recently also raised many
concerns on legal and ethical issues regarding the use of LLMs like ChatGPT in medical research and
practices [120, 121]. It was advocated to establish a robust legal framework encompassing transparency,
equity, privacy, and accountability. Such framework can ensure safe development, validation,
deployment, and continuous monitoring of LLMs, while taking into account limitations and risks [122].
The acknowledgement of ChatGPT as an author in biomedical research has been particularly identified as
an ethical concern. Biomedical researchers may have their opinions on whether ChatGPT or other LLMs
should be welcomed to their ranks. In fact, several papers already list ChatGPT as an author [123-126].
However, after several ethical concerns were raised [127], several of these papers ended up removing
ChatGPT from the author list [128, 129]. One of the problems of allowing machine written articles is
whether they could be reliably recognized. In one report, humans detected 68% of generated abstracts,
but also flagged 14% of human abstracts as machine generated [130].
The most valid criticism of LLM-assisted generation of scientific papers is accountability. There are no
consequences to the LLM if the output is wrong, misleading, or otherwise harmful. Thus, they cannot take
responsibility for writing the article [131-135]. Another issue is copyright – in many jurisdictions, machinegenerated material may not receive a copyright [120, 131, 136], which poses an obvious problem for
journals.
Questions also arise regarding the disclosure of LLM usage during a project or in preparing a paper [133,
135]. There is a long-standing tradition of reporting tools that were used for a project. On one side, if the
LLM had a material impact on the study, it should be reported. On the other side, we do not report the
spell checker that was used to prepare a paper. Should we report the LLM? Distinguishing these extremes
in the context of an LLM will require time and experience.

4.5.

Lack of Comprehensive Evaluations

LLMs must be comprehensively evaluated with regard to their performance, safety, and potential bias
before any implementations in biomedicine. However, evaluating these biomedical LLMs is not trivial.
While some traditional NLP tasks such as NER and RE have reliable automatic evaluation metrics like F1
scores, users mostly use LLMs to get free-text response for their biomedical information needs, such as
question answering and text summarization. Generally, expert evaluations of such free-text LLM outputs
are considered as the gold standard, but getting such evaluations is labor-intensive and not scalable. For
example, a panel of clinicians were employed to evaluate the Med-PaLM answers to medical questions
among several axes such as scientific consensus, content appropriateness, extent of possible harm, etc.
[8]. However, only 140 questions have been evaluated in the study, probably due to the high cost of expert
annotations. Another issue for manual evaluation is that there is no consensus on what axes should be
evaluated or the scoring guidelines, so the manual evaluation results from different studies are not
directly comparable. Therefore, it is imperative to arrive at a reporting consensus, such as the PRISMA
statement [137] for systematic reviews, for evaluating biomedical LLMs.

15

Alternatively, there are two main approaches to evaluate LLM answers without involving expert
evaluators. The most common practice is to convert the task into USMLE-style multi-choice questions
(such as MedQA, PubMedQA, and MedMCQA) and evaluate the accuracy of LLM-generated answer
choices. These tasks serve as a good proxy for evaluating the knowledge reasoning capabilities of LLMs.
However, they are not realistic since the answer choices will not be provided in real-life user questions in
biomedicine. The other solution is to evaluate the LLM-generated response against a reference answer or
summary with automatic metrics. These automatic scoring can be based on lexical overlap such as BLEU
[138], ROUGE [139], and METEOR [140], as well as semantic similarity like BERTScore [141], BARTScore
[142], and GPTScore [143]. Although these automatic metrics can evaluate free-text LLM outputs in a large
scale, they often do not strongly correlate with human judgements [79, 90]. As such, it is also vital to
design new evaluation metrics, potentially with LLMs, that can be both scalable and accurate.

5. Discussion and Conclusion
In this survey, we reviewed the recent progress of LLMs with a focus on generative models like ChatGPT
and their applications in the biomedical and health domains. We find that biomedical and health
applications of ChatGPT and other LLMs are being extensively explored in the literature and that some
domain specialized LLMs have been developed. Performance of specialized and non-specialized LLMs for
biomedical applications have been evaluated on a variety of tasks. Our findings also revealed performance
of LLMs varies on different biomedical downstream tasks. LLMs were able to achieve new state-of-the-art
performance on text generation tasks such as medical question answering. However, they still
underperformed the existing fine-tuning approach of smaller LMs for information extraction.
Looking forward, the opportunities for LLMs present promising prospects for deployment of LLM powered
systems for biomedical and health applications in real-life scenarios. In the era of large language models,
the future direction of medical summarization holds significant promise. We can anticipate that LLMs will
be increasingly utilized to automatically summarize extensive medical literature, radiology reports, and
clinical notes. This would facilitate quicker access to vital information and support decision-making
processes for healthcare professionals. Additionally, they are expected to better handle complex medical
terminology and context, thus improving the quality of summaries. Another potential area of growth is in
patient communication. LLMs could be used to transform complex medical jargon into layman’s terms,
aiding patients in understanding their health conditions and treatment options. Furthermore, a medical
classroom furnished with LLMs can bring students more personalized learning experiences and more focus
on study of critical thinking and problem-solving skills. A clinical system integrated with LLMs can
beneficially provide patients and physicians with efficient and quality health care services through
accurate diagnosis, precision medicine, appropriate decision-making, and proper clinical documentation
in preparing succinct clinical reports, concise clinical notes, and warm-hearted patient letters.
As a matter of fact, a number of articles have been published on perspectives of using ChatGPT for
biomedical and clinical applications in practice [120, 121]. And many experiments have been conducted
to evaluate use of ChatGPT in various scenarios in biomedical and clinical workflows. However, until now
no actual deployment of ChatGPT or any other LLMs has been reported. Because of the high-stakes nature
of biomedical and health settings, deployment of LLMs like ChatGPT into practice requires more prudence
16

given their limitations and risks. In particular, the transparency challenge that the training data of ChatGPT
and other LLMs remain closed source increases difficulties in the evaluation of LLMs.
While the potential benefits are immense, we must also be mindful of the risks and challenges as discussed
previously. Strategies and techniques need to be developed and deployed for overcoming the limitations
of LLMs. To alleviate generation of nonsensical or harmful content, retrieval augmentation techniques can
be used, effective prompts need to be crafted, and rigorous evaluation methods shall be applied [67, 144].
To mitigate bias and improve fairness, training data need to be diversified, bias and fairness of LLMs shall
be analyzed, and bias detection shall be implemented. To protect privacy of individuals, sensitive personal
information shall be limited and deidentified when they are used in LLMs. Regulations shall be created
and issued to secure legal and proper use of LLMs. The research community is working hard on
development of such strategies and techniques. Ensuring the ethical use of AI in healthcare, maintaining
patient privacy, mitigating biases in AI models, and increasing transparency of AI models are some of the
significant considerations for future development in this area. Therefore, a multidisciplinary approach,
including input from healthcare professionals, data scientists, ethicists, and policymakers, will be crucial
to guide the future direction of future research and development in the era of LLMs.

Acknowledgement
This research was supported by the NIH Intramural Research Program (IRP), National Library of Medicine.
Qingyu Chen was also supported by the National Library of Medicine of the National Institutes of Health
under award number 1K99LM014024.

17

References
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

OpenAI. Introducing ChatGPT. 2022.
OpenAI. GPT-4 Technical Report. 2023.
Bommasani, R., et al., On the Opportunities and Risks of Foundation Models. 2022.
Shin, H.-C., et al., BioMegatron: Larger Biomedical Domain Language Model. 2020.
Yang, X., et al., GatorTron: A Large Clinical Language Model to Unlock Patient Information from
Unstructured Electronic Health Records. 2022.
Bolton, E., et al. BioMedLM: a Domain-Specific Large Language Model for Biomedical Text. 2022.
Luo, R., et al., BioGPT: Generative Pre-trained Transformer for Biomedical Text Generation and
Mining. Briefings in Bioinformatics, 2022. 23(6): p. bbac409.
Singhal, K., et al., Large Language Models Encode Clinical Knowledge. 2022.
Wu, C., et al., PMC-LLaMA: Further Finetuning LLaMA on Medical Papers. 2023.
Zhao, W.X., et al., A Survey of Large Language Models. 2023.
Yang, J., et al., Harnessing the Power of LLMs in Practice: A Survey on ChatGPT and Beyond.
2023.
Dave, T., S.A. Athaluri, and S. Singh, ChatGPT in medicine: an overview of its applications,
advantages, limitations, future prospects, and ethical considerations. Frontiers in Artificial
Intelligence, 2023. 6.
Thapa, S. and S. Adhikari, ChatGPT, Bard, and Large Language Models for Biomedical Research:
Opportunities and Pitfalls. Annals of Biomedical Engineering, 2023.
Sharma, S., et al., A Critical Review of ChatGPT as a Potential Substitute for Diabetes Educators.
Cureus, 2023. 15(5): p. e38380.
Bengio, Y., et al., A Neural Probabilistic Language Model. 2003.
Vaswani, A., et al., Attention Is All You Need. 2017.
Devlin, J., et al. BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language
Understanding. in NAACL-HLT 2019. 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Radford, A., et al., Improving Language Understanding by Generative Pre-Training. 2018.
Brown, T.B., et al., Language Models are Few-Shot Learners. 2020.
Radford, A., et al., Language Models are Unsupervised Multitask Learners. 2019.
Raffel, C., et al., Exploring the Limits of Transfer Learning with a Unified Text-to-Text
Transformer. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 2020. 21(140): p. 1-67.
Lewis, M., et al. BART: Denoising Sequence-to-Sequence Pre-training for Natural Language
Generation, Translation, and Comprehension. in ACL 2020. 2020. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Wei, J., et al., Emergent Abilities of Large Language Models. 2022.
Chowdhery, A., et al., PaLM: Scaling Language Modeling with Pathways. 2022.
Taylor, R., et al., Galactica: A Large Language Model for Science. 2022.
Ouyang, L., et al., Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback. 2022.
Wei, J., et al., Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models. 2023.
OpenAI. OpenAI Codex. 2021.
Nori, H., et al., Capabilities of GPT-4 on Medical Challenge Problems. 2023.
Singhal, K., et al., Towards Expert-Level Medical Question Answering with Large Language
Models. 2023.
Liévin, V., C.E. Hother, and O. Winther, Can large language models reason about medical
questions? 2023.
18

32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.

45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.

53.
54.
55.
56.
57.

Touvron, H., et al., LLaMA: Open and Efficient Foundation Language Models. 2023.
Toma, A., et al., Clinical Camel: An Open-Source Expert-Level Medical Language Model with
Dialogue-Based Knowledge Encoding. 2023.
Li, Y., et al., ChatDoctor: A Medical Chat Model Fine-tuned on LLaMA Model using Medical
Domain Knowledge. 2023.
Han, T., et al., MedAlpaca -- An Open-Source Collection of Medical Conversational AI Models and
Training Data. 2023.
Chung, H.W., et al., Scaling Instruction-Finetuned Language Models. 2022.
Lee, J., et al., BioBERT: a pre-trained biomedical language representation model for biomedical
text mining. Bioinformatics, 2020. 36(4): p. 1234-1240.
Gu, Y., et al., Domain-Specific Language Model Pretraining for Biomedical Natural Language
Processing. 2021.
Miolo, G., G. Mantoan, and C. Orsenigo, ELECTRAMed: a new pre-trained language
representation model for biomedical NLP. 2021.
Gao, L., et al., The Pile: An 800GB Dataset of Diverse Text for Language Modeling. 2020.
Lo, K., et al. S2ORC: The Semantic Scholar Open Research Corpus. in ACL 2020. 2020. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Google. PaLM 2 Technical Report. 2023.
Jin, D., et al., What Disease Does This Patient Have? A Large-Scale Open Domain Question
Answering Dataset from Medical Exams. Applied Sciences, 2021. 11(14): p. 6421.
Pal, A., L.K. Umapathi, and M. Sankarasubbu. MedMCQA: A Large-scale Multi-Subject MultiChoice Dataset for Medical domain Question Answering. in Conference on Health, Inference, and
Learning. 2022. PMLR.
Abacha, A.B., E. Agichtein, and Y. Pinter, Overview of the Medical Question Answering Task at
TREC 2017 LiveQA. 2017.
Abacha, A.B., et al., Bridging the Gap Between Consumers’ Medication Questions and Trusted
Answers, in MEDINFO 2019: Health and Wellbeing e-Networks for All. 2019, IOS Press. p. 25-29.
Ely, J.W., et al., Answering Physicians' Clinical Questions: Obstacles and Potential Solutions.
Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association, 2005. 12(2): p. 217-224.
Gopalakrishnan, V., et al., A survey on literature based discovery approaches in biomedical
domain. Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 2019. 93: p. 103141.
Lu, Z., PubMed and beyond: a survey of web tools for searching biomedical literature. Database,
2011. 2011: p. baq036.
Jin, Q., et al., Biomedical Question Answering: A Survey of Approaches and Challenges. 2021.
Lin, J. and W.J. Wilbur, PubMed related articles: a probabilistic topic-based model for content
similarity. BMC Bioinformatics, 2007. 8(1): p. 423.
Jin, Q., R. Leaman, and Z. Lu, Retrieve, Summarize, and Verify: How will ChatGPT impact
information seeking from the medical literature? Journal of the American Society of Nephrology,
2023. Publish Ahead of Print.
Jeblick, K., et al., ChatGPT Makes Medicine Easy to Swallow: An Exploratory Case Study on
Simplified Radiology Reports. 2022.
Liu, N.F., T. Zhang, and P. Liang, Evaluating Verifiability in Generative Search Engines. 2023.
Wang, S., et al., Can ChatGPT Write a Good Boolean Query for Systematic Review Literature
Search? 2023.
Kanoulas, E., et al., CLEF 2017 technologically assisted reviews in empirical medicine overview.
CEUR Workshop Proceedings, 2017. 1866: p. 1-29.
Kanoulas, E., et al. CLEF 2018 Technologically Assisted Reviews in Empirical Medicine Overview.
in Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum. 2018.
19

58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.

Kanoulas, E., et al. CLEF 2019 Technology Assisted Reviews in Empirical Medicine Overview. in
Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum. 2019.
Wang, S., et al. From Little Things Big Things Grow: A Collection with Seed Studies for Medical
Systematic Review Literature Search. 2022. Association for Computing Machinery.
Krithara, A., et al., BioASQ-QA: A manually curated corpus for Biomedical Question Answering.
Scientific Data, 2023. 10(1): p. 170.
Tsatsaronis, G., et al., An overview of the BIOASQ large-scale biomedical semantic indexing and
question answering competition. BMC Bioinformatics, 2015. 16(1): p. 138.
Jin, Q., et al. PubMedQA: A Dataset for Biomedical Research Question Answering. in EMNLPIJCNLP 2019. 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Hou, W. and Z. Ji, GeneTuring tests GPT models in genomics. 2023.
Yasunaga, M., et al., Deep Bidirectional Language-Knowledge Graph Pretraining. 2022.
Ji, Z., et al., Survey of Hallucination in Natural Language Generation. ACM Computing Surveys,
2023. 55(12): p. 1-38.
Zakka, C., et al., Almanac: Retrieval-Augmented Language Models for Clinical Medicine. 2023.
Jin, Q., et al., GeneGPT: Augmenting Large Language Models with Domain Tools for Improved
Access to Biomedical Information. 2023.
Parisi, A., Y. Zhao, and N. Fiedel, TALM: Tool Augmented Language Models. 2022.
Qin, Y., et al., Tool Learning with Foundation Models. 2023.
Gao, L., et al., PAL: Program-aided Language Models. 2023.
Fox, S. and M. Duggan, Health Online 2013, in Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech.
2013.
Xiong, H., et al., DoctorGLM: Fine-tuning your Chinese Doctor is not a Herculean Task. 2023.
Wang, H., et al., HuaTuo: Tuning LLaMA Model with Chinese Medical Knowledge. 2023.
Qazvinian, V., et al., Generating extractive summaries of scientific paradigms. Journal of Artificial
Intelligence Research, 2013. 46(1): p. 165–201.
Cohan, A., et al. A Discourse-Aware Attention Model for Abstractive Summarization of Long
Documents. in NAACL-HLT 2018. 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Pang, B., et al., Long Document Summarization with Top-down and Bottom-up Inference. 2022.
Chen, X., et al. Capturing Relations between Scientific Papers: An Abstractive Model for Related
Work Section Generation. in ACL-IJCNLP 2021. 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Laundry, N., Turn GPT-4 Into your Personal Literature Review Bot, in The Academic’s Field Guide
to Writing Code. 2023.
Wang, L.L., et al., Automated Metrics for Medical Multi-Document Summarization Disagree with
Human Evaluations. 2023.
Hu, J., et al., Improving Radiology Summarization with Radiograph and Anatomy Prompts. 2022.
Johnson, A.E.W., et al., MIMIC-CXR-JPG, a large publicly available database of labeled chest
radiographs. 2019.
Smit, A., et al., CheXbert: Combining Automatic Labelers and Expert Annotations for Accurate
Radiology Report Labeling Using BERT. 2020.
Ma, C., et al., ImpressionGPT: An Iterative Optimizing Framework for Radiology Report
Summarization with ChatGPT. 2023.
Wang, S., et al., ChatCAD: Interactive Computer-Aided Diagnosis on Medical Image using Large
Language Models. 2023.
Pivovarov, R. and N. Elhadad, Automated methods for the summarization of electronic health
records. Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association, 2015. 22(5): p. 938-947.
Feblowitz, J.C., et al., Summarization of clinical information: A conceptual model. Journal of
Biomedical Informatics, 2011. 44(4): p. 688-699.
20

87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.

94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.

110.
111.
112.

McInerney, D.J., et al., Query-Focused EHR Summarization to Aid Imaging Diagnosis. 2020.
Peng, Y., et al., AI-generated text may have a role in evidence-based medicine. Nature Medicine,
2023: p. 1-2.
Patel, S.B. and K. Lam, ChatGPT: the future of discharge summaries? The Lancet Digital Health,
2023. 5(3): p. e107-e108.
Tang, L., et al., Evaluating Large Language Models on Medical Evidence Summarization. 2023.
Ramprasad, S., et al., Automatically Summarizing Evidence from Clinical Trials: A Prototype
Highlighting Current Challenges. 2023.
Luo, L., et al., AIONER: All-in-one scheme-based biomedical named entity recognition using deep
learning. 2022.
Alrowili, S. and V. Shanker. BioM-Transformers: Building Large Biomedical Language Models
with BERT, ALBERT and ELECTRA. in BioNLP 2021. 2021. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Wei, C.-H., et al., Assessing the state of the art in biomedical relation extraction: overview of the
BioCreative V chemical-disease relation (CDR) task. Database, 2016. 2016: p. baw032.
Agrawal, M., et al., Large Language Models are Few-Shot Clinical Information Extractors. 2022.
Caufield, J.H., et al., Structured prompt interrogation and recursive extraction of semantics
(SPIRES): A method for populating knowledge bases using zero-shot learning. 2023.
Gutiérrez, B.J., et al., Thinking about GPT-3 In-Context Learning for Biomedical IE? Think Again.
2022.
Chen, Q., et al., A Comprehensive Benchmark Study on Biomedical Text Generation and Mining
with ChatGPT. 2023, Bioinformatics.
Doğan, R.I., R. Leaman, and Z. Lu, NCBI disease corpus: A resource for disease name recognition
and concept normalization. Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 2014. 47: p. 1-10.
Smith, L., et al., Overview of BioCreative II gene mention recognition. Genome Biology, 2008.
9(2): p. S2.
Collier, N., et al. Introduction to the Bio-entity Recognition Task at JNLPBA. in BioNLP 2004. 2004.
COLING.
Krallinger, M., et al. Overview of the BioCreative VI chemical-protein interaction Track. 2017.
Herrero-Zazo, M., et al., The DDI corpus: An annotated corpus with pharmacological substances
and drug–drug interactions. Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 2013. 46(5): p. 914-920.
Bravo, À., et al., Extraction of relations between genes and diseases from text and large-scale
data analysis: implications for translational research. BMC Bioinformatics, 2015. 16(1): p. 55.
Chen, Q., et al., Large language models in biomedical natural language processing: benchmarks,
baselines, and recommendations. 2023.
OpenAI, Educator considerations for ChatGPT. 2023.
https://www.khanacademy.org/.
M, P. and M. V., Large Language Models in Medical Education and Quality Concerns. Journal of
Quality in Health care & Economics, 2023.
Eysenbach, G., The Role of ChatGPT, Generative Language Models, and Artificial Intelligence in
Medical Education: A Conversation With ChatGPT and a Call for Papers. JMIR Medical Education,
2023.
Khan, R.A., et al., ChatGPT - Reshaping medical education and clinical management. Pak J Med
Sci, 2023.
Tamkin, A., et al., Understanding the Capabilities, Limitations, and Societal Impact of Large
Language Models. 2021.
OpenAI. GPT-4 System Card. 2023.
21

113.

114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.

130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.

Shah, D.S., H.A. Schwartz, and D. Hovy. Predictive Biases in Natural Language Processing Models:
A Conceptual Framework and Overview. in ACL 2020. 2020. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Abid, A., M. Farooqi, and J. Zou. Persistent Anti-Muslim Bias in Large Language Models. 2021.
Association for Computing Machinery.
Obermeyer, Z., et al., Dissecting racial bias in an algorithm used to manage the health of
populations. Science, 2019. 366(6464): p. 447-453.
Sourlos, N., et al., Possible Bias in Supervised Deep Learning Algorithms for CT Lung Nodule
Detection and Classification. Cancers, 2022. 14(16): p. 3867.
Vyas, D.A., L.G. Eisenstein, and D.S. Jones, Hidden in Plain Sight — Reconsidering the Use of Race
Correction in Clinical Algorithms. New England Journal of Medicine, 2020. 383(9): p. 874-882.
Huang, J., H. Shao, and K.C.-C. Chang, Are Large Pre-Trained Language Models Leaking Your
Personal Information? 2022.
Naik, N., et al., Legal and Ethical Consideration in Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare: Who Takes
Responsibility? Frontiers in Surgery, 2022. 9.
Sallam, M., ChatGPT Utility in Healthcare Education, Research, and Practice: Systematic Review
on the Promising Perspectives and Valid Concerns. Healthcare, 2023. 11(6): p. 887.
Li, J., et al., ChatGPT in Healthcare: A Taxonomy and Systematic Review. 2023.
Karabacak, M., et al., Embracing Large Language Models for Medical Applications: Opportunities
and Challenges. Cureus, 2023. 15(5).
Kung, T.H., et al., Performance of ChatGPT on USMLE: Potential for AI-Assisted Medical
Education Using Large Language Models. medRxiv, 2022: p. 2022.12.19.22283643.
O'Connor, S., Open artificial intelligence platforms in nursing education: Tools for academic
progress or abuse? Nurse Educ Pract, 2023. 66: p. 103537.
Zhavoronkov, A., Rapamycin in the context of Pascal's Wager: generative pre-trained
transformer perspective. Oncoscience, 2022. 9: p. 82-84.
Generative Pretrained Transformer, G., A. Thunström, Osmanovic, and S. Steingrimsson, Can
GPT-3 write an academic paper on itself, with minimal human input? 2022.
Stokel-Walker, C., ChatGPT listed as author on research papers: many scientists disapprove.
Nature, 2023. 613(7945): p. 620-621.
Kung, T.H., et al., Performance of ChatGPT on USMLE: Potential for AI-assisted medical education
using large language models. PLOS Digit Health, 2023. 2(2): p. e0000198.
O'Connor, S., Corrigendum to "Open artificial intelligence platforms in nursing education: Tools
for academic progress or abuse?" [Nurse Educ. Pract. 66 (2023) 103537]. Nurse Educ Pract,
2023. 67: p. 103572.
Gao, C.A., et al., Comparing scientific abstracts generated by ChatGPT to real abstracts with
detectors and blinded human reviewers. NPJ Digit Med, 2023. 6(1): p. 75.
Lee, J.Y., Can an artificial intelligence chatbot be the author of a scholarly article? J Educ Eval
Health Prof, 2023. 20: p. 6.
Siegerink, B., et al., ChatGPT as an author of academic papers is wrong and highlights the
concepts of accountability and contributorship. Nurse Educ Pract, 2023. 68: p. 103599.
Goto, A. and K. Katanoda, Should we acknowledge ChatGPT as an author? J Epidemiol, 2023.
Ide, K., P. Hawke, and T. Nakayama, Can ChatGPT be considered an author of a medical article? J
Epidemiol, 2023.
Norris, C., Large Language Models Like ChatGPT in ABME: Author Guidelines. Ann Biomed Eng,
2023. 51(6): p. 1121-1122.
Sallam, M., ChatGPT Utility in Healthcare Education, Research, and Practice: Systematic Review
on the Promising Perspectives and Valid Concerns. Healthcare (Basel), 2023. 11(6).
22

137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.

Page, M.J., et al., The PRISMA 2020 statement: an updated guideline for reporting systematic
reviews. BMJ, 2021. 372: p. n71.
Papineni, K., et al. Bleu: a Method for Automatic Evaluation of Machine Translation. in ACL 2002.
2002. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Lin, C.-Y. ROUGE: A Package for Automatic Evaluation of Summaries. 2004. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Banerjee, S. and A. Lavie. METEOR: An Automatic Metric for MT Evaluation with Improved
Correlation with Human Judgments. 2005. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Zhang, T., et al., BERTScore: Evaluating Text Generation with BERT. 2020.
Yuan, W., G. Neubig, and P. Liu, BARTScore: Evaluating Generated Text as Text Generation. 2021.
Fu, J., et al., GPTScore: Evaluate as You Desire. 2023.
Jin, Q., et al. Matching Patients to Clinical Trials with Large Language Models. arXiv.org 2023
2023/07/27.

23

