Selecting Query-bag as Pseudo Relevance Feedback for
Information-seeking Conversations
Xiaoqing Zhang1
Xiuying Chen2
3
Shen Gao
Shuqi Li1 Xin Gao2
Ji-Rong Wen1
Rui Yan1 *
1

Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence, Renmin University of China
2
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
3
Shandong University
{xiaoqingz, shuqili, jrwen, ruiyan}@ruc.edu.cn
{xiuying.chen, xin.gao}@kaust.edu.sa
{shengao}@sdu.edu.cn

Abstract

arXiv:2404.04272v1 [cs.IR] 22 Mar 2024

Information-seeking dialogue systems are
widely used in e-commerce systems, with answers that must be tailored to fit the specific settings of the online system. Given the user query,
the information-seeking dialogue systems first
retrieve a subset of response candidates, then
further select the best response from the candidate set through re-ranking. Current methods mainly retrieve response candidates based
solely on the current query, however, incorporating similar questions could introduce more
diverse content, potentially refining the representation and improving the matching process.
Hence, in this paper, we proposed a Query-bag
based Pseudo Relevance Feedback framework
(QB-PRF), which constructs a query-bag with
related queries to serve as pseudo signals to
guide information-seeking conversations. Concretely, we first propose a Query-bag Selection module (QBS), which utilizes contrastive
learning to train the selection of synonymous
queries in an unsupervised manner by leveraging the representations learned from pre-trained
VAE. Secondly, we come up with a Querybag Fusion module (QBF) that fuses synonymous queries to enhance the semantic representation of the original query through multidimensional attention computation. We verify
the effectiveness of the QB-PRF framework on
two competitive pretrained backbone models,
including BERT and GPT-2. Experimental results on two benchmark datasets show that our
framework achieves superior performance over
strong baselines1 .

1

Introduction

Human-machine conversational systems in ecommerce differ significantly from open-domain
dialogue systems. The responses they provide are
tailored specifically to the context of the online
*
1

Corresponding authors.
Code and checkpoints will be released upon acceptance.

Input Query Q: How old can newborn babies eat salt?

Questions from
Question-Answer Pair
<Q1, Q2, ..., Qk>

<Q1,A1>
<Q2,A2>
…
<Qk,Ak>

Matching Pairs
<Q-Qk>
<Q-Q1 , 0.95>
<Q-Q3 , 0.93>...
<Q-Q2 , 0.87>

Questions from
Question Set
<Q1, Q2, ..., Qk+n>

<Q1,A1>
<Q2,A2>
…
<Qk+1>
…

<At what age can newborns have salt?>
<When can your baby have salty food?>
<Age for salt introduction to newborns?>
Query-bag
Augmented

(Q, Query-bag)

Q'

<Q'-Q4 , 0.97>
<Q'-Q3 , 0.95>...
<Q'-Q1 , 0.87>

A1: Excessive salt intake can
lead to dehydration in
newborns, as ...

A4: Babies should avoid
consuming salty food until they
are 12 months ...

Baseline Output response

QB-PRF Output response

Figure 1: The comparison of existing baseline and our
framework for information-seeking conversation. We
use query-bag to enhance the query representation so as
to enhance re-ranking performance.

shopping platform in question. For instance, the
precise process of executing a particular action can
vary between different platforms such as Amazon
and eBay. Hence, there has been considerable research dedicated to retrieval-based systems in this
area (Qiu et al., 2018; Solomon, 1997; Fu et al.,
2020), to retrieve an accurate answer from a curated answer pool. Concretely, given a query, these
systems 1) retrieve a subset of response candidates
through pre-defined relevance searching processes
between the query’s context and the response’s
context, then further 2) select the best response
from the candidate set through re-ranking methods,
that are normally accomplished by computing the
matching degree between the query’s context and
the response (Fu et al., 2020; Wu et al., 2016; Ma
et al., 2019; Yan et al., 2016; Zhou et al., 2018).
Most existing models rely solely on the current
query for retrieval and selection, which can be limiting given the diversity of expression for any single
meaning. For example, the queries “How old can

newborn babies eat salt?” and “Suitable salt intake for newborns?” convey similar intents but use
different wording. Frequently, numerous related
queries share similar meanings and can be utilized
to enhance the representation of the query, thereby
improving the current question answering system’s
comprehension and responses. The Figure 1 illustrates a comparison between information-seeking
conversations with and without query-bag. However, it is not easy to construct such “query bag”
with similar meanings. The first challenge involves
retrieving a diverse range of synonymous response
candidates, given that the entire dataset may be
noisy and include queries that are similar but not
synonymous. Once we have a diversified set of
queries, the second challenge is to effectively combine this query collection with the original query
to create an enhanced representation.
To resolve the above challenges, in this paper,
we proposed a training paradigm called Querybag Pseudo Relevance Feedback (QB-PRF) for
Information-seeking Conversations, which can be
applied in any downstream matching models. QBPRF includes a Query-bag Selection Module (QBS)
for choosing synonymous queries and a Query-bag
Fusion Module (QBF) to enhance the query representation. Specifically, we employs a contrastive
mechanism to develop a distinct semantic representation of queries. The representation is then used
in QBS to identify and select similar queries, i.e., a
query-bag, for information enhancement, thereby
improving the accuracy of retrieval. With the querybag, we can learn from distinctive query representation, which could serve as a pseudo supervision
signal and ensure the framework selects valuable
and diversified data with the same meaning to form
the query-bag.
For QBF, it learns to fuse the query-bag information received by the QBS module to improve the
performance of text-matching tasks. Specifically,
we applied the powerful transformer model to learn
segment disambiguation and query-bag fusion. By
doing so, we could enrich the semantic representation and learn a more generalized representation
of the queries. The fused representation will then
serve as the new query representation and will be
further passed to any matching model for boosting
the performance of text-matching tasks. The experimental results and in-depth analyses indicate
that our proposed method significantly enhances
the performance of current matching models, such
as the pretrained BERT and GPT-2, across two con-

versational corpora.
To summarize, our contributions are threefold:
First, we proposed a query-bag selection module,
which leverages contrastive learning to rank and
select relevant queries from the unlabeled corpus
to form the query-bag with little noise. Second, we
proposed a query-bag fusion module to fuse mutual information of the queries and selected querybags for query refinement. Finally, we verified our
proposed framework on various pretrained backbone models. Experimental results show that our
proposed method can better use the refined query
representation and improve existing models’ performance in information-seeking conversations.

2

Related Work

Retrieval-based Dialogue. Retrieval-based dialogue models have always been a challenging research area in natural language processing. In order
to select the most relevant answers from the corpus,
the previous method focus on learning to extract
crucial matching information to calculate utterance
relevance (Zhou et al., 2018; Gao et al., 2020, 2021;
Chen et al., 2022; Li et al., 2024). DAM (Zhou
et al., 2018) stacks multiple attention networks to
model the interaction of multiple utterances and
current responses. BERT-FP (Han et al., 2021) utilizes large-scale pre-trained models (i.e., BERT)
and leverages multi-task learning to learn the interactions of utterances and the utterance relevance
classification to model discourse relevance and understands the semantic relevance and coherence
between the dialogue context. Other efforts focus
on improving the quality of coarse-grained recalled
candidates, such as utilizing a dense retrieval module and an interaction layer to obtain high-quality
candidates, aiming to enhance the effectiveness of
the final re-ranking stage (Lan et al., 2024).
Information-seeking Conversation.
The
information-seeking conversation is a popular
branch of retrieval-based dialogue. Most of the
large-scale information-seeking systems in the industry are based on retrieval systems. Currently, the
information-seeking conversation system highly relies on the quality and quantity of data. Therefore,
it is necessary to pay attention to how to utilize
more unlabeled data to boost the performance of
the model (i.e., low-resource research). At the same
time, transferring user questions to the model to
achieve the goal of lifelong learning has become
the trend in this research domain.

For instance, Pan et al. enhances response
candidates by using pseudo-relevance feedback
(PRF) and proposes a reinforced selector to extract useful PRF terms, then rank the response with
BERT for better performance. Gaur et al. propose an Information Seeking Question generator
(ISEEQ) for generating Information Seeking Questions (ISQs) from short user queries with a knowledge graph to enrich the user query. IART (Yang
et al., 2020) weights sentences by introducing users’
intentions, which ultimately affects the ranking of
answer choices. Yang et al. incorporate external
knowledge into deep neural models with pseudorelevance feedback and QA correspondence knowledge distillation among information-seeking conversation systems. In terms of low-resource research, Voskarides et al. classify the user query
into two categories whether it can be used to arrive
at a better expression and modifies the query according to the classification results, to clarify user
needs and reduce the annotation data required by
the task. QRFA (Vakulenko et al., 2019) uses process mining technology to understand the structure
of the user interaction process.
Unlike the proposed methods, our framework
targets to utilize the pseudo relevance feedback
algorithm to select more equivalent queries with
different expression to enhance the diversity of the
training data and further fuse valuable information to boost the performance of the informationseeking conversational system.

Matching. We divide the model training into two
stages. Stage 1 completes representation learning
training, while Stage 2 completes the joint training of QBS, QBF, and text matching. Here, we
will provide a brief overview of our joint learning
framework and further delve into more details.
3.2

Representation Learning

To provide supervision signals for QBS training,
we leverage unsupervised pre-training methods
to obtain differentiated sentence representation.
Specifically, we apply the classic Variational AutoEncoder (VAE) (Kingma and Welling, 2013) network which consists of the bi-GRU layers:
LV AE = E[logpθ (x|z)] − βDKL (qϕ (z|x)||p(z))
To enable the model to learn distinctive representation, we also integrated InfoNCE loss Lq into the
training. This ensures the model adjusts the distribution of the questions and enables similar queries
to occur around in the same embedding space:
exp(q · k+ /τ )
Lq = −log Pk
i=0 q · ki /τ
where k+ represents the positive query related to q
in a batch, τ is the hyper-parameter, and k + 1 is
the batch size.
The training of the representation learning network is formulated as:
LStage1 = LVAE + αLq

3

Methodology

In this paper, we proposed a Query-bag Pseudo
Relevance Feedback framework for informationseeking conversations. Below we will first give an
overview of the proposed framework and further
illustrate the details of each module.
3.1

Overview

We define the information-seeking conversation as
a classification task. Given the user query Q and the
retrieval candidates B = {b1 , b2 , ..., bk }, the classification model aims to rank the candidates based
on the similarity between Q and B. The training
objective is to minimize the cross-entropy loss:
LCE =

P

(<Q,bi >,y) −y log(ŷ) + (1 − y) log(1 − ŷ)

We structure the QB-PRF framework as four submodule: Representation Learning, Query-bag Selection (QBS), Query-bag Fusion (QBF), and Text

The entire training of representation learning is
completed independently, as seen in Stage 1 of
Figure 2.
Due to the different languages in our benchmark data, we trained two language versions of the
VAE model. For the English version, we utilized
a dataset of 1 million questions from the Ubuntu
corpus (Lowe et al., 2015), while for the Chinese
version, we collected 1 million questions from
Baidu Zhidao2 , one of the largest question-andanswer websites in China. With the VAE model,
we can eventually learn a better representation of
the queries. We then utilize such representation to
implement query-bag selection.
3.3

Query-bag Selection

As mentioned, QBS module is utilized to select
query-bag with little noise for the refinement of the
2

https://zhidao.baidu.com/

(a) QBS

Labeled
Querypair
(LQP=<q, p>)

b2
...
bk

!

b3

K=b
V=b

Stage2

qq
qq
b

QBS

Self-Attention

Linear
Softmax

Linear

Q=q

Query-bag

ℒ%&'(%) ℒ*

b1
Encoder
(VAE)

Question
Corpus

RELU

ℒ$

"

Dense
Retrieval

Maximize
Minimize

BILSTM

Encoder
(VAE)

Question
Corpus

ℒ!"#

(b) QBF
Cross-Attention

Stage1

Classifier
QBF

SA(q)

q

Query-bag candidates

ℒ+,

p

Figure 2: The structure of the QB-PRF framework. (a) QBS module, employs the Lreward and Lb to supervise
the selection of similar queries. (b) QBF module, utilizes the multidimensional attention for a refined query
representation.

corresponding query. Different from baseline query
retrieval, QBS expands the query scope, traditional
retrieval only searches questions from annotated
Q-A pairs, while QBS retrieves from the entire
accessible question pool. It can also include unreferenced user questions as retrieval targets, as
this data often comprises a significant and diverse
amount. With the representation learning network
learns a distinctive representation of the queries,
the QBS module learns to select valuable queries
to form the query-bag via contrastive learning.
We leverage the pre-trained VAE model to encode all questions and utilize the dense retrieval
model to request similar questions. Precisely, We
store the encoded questions in the Faiss index, and
then similarly use VAE to encode the input query
Q. Subsequently, we utilize this encoding to retrieve the top-k query-bag candidates bi from Faiss,
which serve as input for QBS. Then we concatenate the representations to form a series of queryquestion (Q-Q) pairs. We project the Q-Q pairs into
a BiLSTM layer with a residual network to get the
shallow interaction between the query and question.
The representation is subsequently fed into a twolayer linear classifier to compute the probability
that determines its selection into the query-bags:
SN(bi ) = Softmax(Wg (BiLSTM(Q ⊕ bi )) + bg )
where Wg and bg are the parameters of the classifi-

cation module 3 .
We apply the re-ranking process during training
to ensure the QBS module learns to distinguish
valuable queries from non-valuable ones. Specifically, the re-ranking process is supervised by InfoNCE loss Lb and a selection reward loss Lreward .
The InfoNCE loss, denoted as Lb , is a technique in
contrastive learning designed to ensure that related
questions within a query-bag are grouped together
while also maximizing their distinction from dissimilar ones:
exp(q · b+ /τ )
Lb = −log PM
i=0 q · bi /τ
where M = Bs · (Bs − 1), Bs is the bag size, bi
refers to the samples in the query-bag, b+ represents the pseudo positive candidates related to q.
The selection reward loss Lreward is applied to
represent the average gain of positive questions:
PBs
Lreward = −log

+
i=1 sim(q, SN (bi ) ) + τ1
PBs
+
i=1 SN (bi ) ) + τ2

where τ1 , τ1 are the hyper-parameters.
With such implementation, the selected questions are expected to have higher confidence under
3

We apply the BiLSTM network with residual layer based
on experimental observations, where the BiLSTM network
performs better than directly feeding the representation to
linear layers.

the determined size of query bags. The two losses
are jointly trained to reach a convergence state in
the training process. It ensures the distance between the query and each positive question in the
query-bag is as close as possible and enables the
sum of the average distance between the selected
questions and the original user query is the largest.
Finally, with the QBS module, given the user’s
query, we could retrieve top-k similar questions
and re-rank the question candidates to form the corresponding query-bag. The selected query-bag and
the corresponding query will then be passed to the
query-bag fusion module.
3.4

Query-bag Fusion

We utilized a two-layer transformer network to fuse
the mutual information of the query-bag and the
original retrieval user query to implement information fusion. We average the expression of user
query interacts with each sentence from query-bag
through the QBF network to obtain the components
of query-bag fused the necessary tokens to the original question.
Specifically, we take the user query q and querybag bi and apply a cross-attention mechanism to
conduct interaction between q and b1 , b2 , ..., bk to
receive a updated query representation (CA(q)).
Then we use the self-attention mechanism to make
further interactions (SA(q)). We project the updated query embedding CA(q) into query q, key
k, and value v through the transformer layer and
outputs the embedding as the fused representation
of query-bags:
CA(q) =

Pk

i=0 Cross-Attn(q, bi , bi )

SA(q) = Self-Attn(q=k=v=q ⊕ CA(q))
With the QBF module, we can receive a refined
representation containing query and query-bag information. The representation is then passed to
the matching model. Note that we will not change
the composition of the downstream classification
network but only update the network’s input to
achieve information transition, which maximizes
the flexibility and controllability of the downstream
classification model.
3.5

The Matching Modules

Our proposed method applies to any model that accepts two inputs for classification without changing
the framework of downstream tasks. We achieve

the maximization of the performance of the matching model through jointly training for query-bag
selection, query-bag fusion, and matching model,
as depicted in Stage 2 of Figure 2:
LStage2 = λ1 · Lb + (1 − λ1 ) · Lreward + λ2 · LCE

where LCE is the cross entropy loss that supervises the matching procedure, λ1 , λ2 are the hyperparameters4 .

4

Experiment

4.1

Dataset

We explore the effect of QBS and QBF on two conversation corpora. In order to facilitate the comparison with manually labeled query-bags, we verified
the effectiveness of our proposed framework on English dataset, Quora. Since Quora has pre-defined
query-bag data, it is suitable for our experimental
verification. Besides Quora, we also sought another Chinese dataset, LaiYe. The LaiYe dataset
is collected from https://laiye.com. The oracle
query-bag statistics of LaiYe and Quora datasets
are listed in Table 1. We introduce the details of
the dataset below.
The Quora dataset is derived from the question
detection task. The query pair in the dataset identifies whether two user queries relate to the same
answer. To construct the training and validation set,
we arranged the questions into Query-Query pairs
(Q-Q pairs) and randomly selected negative samples from other query-bags. The positive/negative
ratio of the training set and the verification set is
1:1, and the positive/negative balance of the test
set is 1:9. The LaiYe dialogue dataset is from the
Laiye human-machine dialogue platform. We form
the query-bag with user query and several similar
questions corresponding to the same answer. Domain expert labels each query in the query-bag. We
form user query and each question in query-bags
into Q-Q pairs for training.
4.2

Backbone Models

To test our proposed framework, we select two classic pretrained models with superior performance
on response selection tasks. BERT, is the bidirectional encoder representation from transformers.
In the pre-train era, verifying the impact of our
QBS and QBF strategies on the pre-train model is
necessary. We initialize the model with the BERT
4

We set λ1 , λ2 to 0.5 and 0.1 respectively.

LaiYe
Quora

Train

Valid

Test

Queries

Query-bags

Average Query-bags

Max

Min

425,310
56,294

40,000
5,536

40,000
10,000

1,187,928
45,903

257,352
12,177

11.20
8.43

171
48

10
4

Table 1: The oracle query-bag statistic of LaiYe and Quora dataset. The train/valid/test is the Q-Q number. The
max/min is the number of queries in the query-bags.
Models

Quora

LaiYe

MRR

R10@1

R10@2

R10@5

R2@1

MRR

R10@1

R10@2

R10@5

R2@1

GPT-3.5

0.829

0.467

0.494

0.563

0.560

0.692

0.559

0.724

0.873

0.745

QB-PRF(BERT)
Q-Q(BERT)
ANCE-PRF(BERT)

0.963
0.927
0.942

0.915
0.870
0.880

0.945
0.918
0.927

0.983
0.972
0.976

0.974
0.958
0.963

0.895
0.899
0.897

0.727
0.666
0.694

0.866
0.838
0.848

0.972
0.955
0.969

0.850
0.812
0.848

Ablation models
QB-PRF(BERT) w/o QBS
QB-PRF(BERT) w/o QBF

0.920
0.942

0.877
0.866

0.920
0.918

0.973
0.978

0.963
0.964

0.894
0.839

0.670
0.487

0.845
0.668

0.960
0.899

0.820
0.784

QB-PRF(GPT-2)
Q-Q(GPT-2)
ANCE-PRF(GPT-2)

0.905
0.895
0.913

0.770
0.747
0.753

0.841
0.838
0.829

0.953
0.944
0.940

0.919
0.919
0.920

0.869
0.865
0.862

0.673
0.658
0.656

0.818
0.815
0.802

0.957
0.956
0.949

0.836
0.832
0.825

Table 2: Automatic evaluation results on two datasets with different backbone models. Bold numbers indicate
statistically significant (p-value < 0.05) improvements over the second best result.

Top-k

MRR

R10@1

R10@2

R10@5

R2@1

1
3
5
10

0.874
0.878
0.878
0.895

0.658
0.659
0.669
0.727

0.833
0.842
0.848
0.866

0.955
0.959
0.960
0.972

0.814
0.818
0.828
0.850

Table 3: The performance of matching model with QBPRF(BERT) when using different retrieval candidates,
i.e., k . It can be seen that top 10 consistently achieves
the best performance.

pre-defined parameters on Huggingface. GPT-2, is
a state-of-the-art language generation model that
uses deep learning to generate human-like text. Its
ability to produce coherent and contextually relevant responses has made it one of the most popular
and widely-used generative models in natural language processing.
4.3

Baselines

To prove the effectiveness of our framework, we
propose three baselines. The LLM Matching with
large language models, the Q-Q matching without
using any extra information, the ANCE-PRF matching that uses pseudo relevance feedback (PRF) to
improve query representations for text matching.
LLM Matching. To observe the performance
and limitations of large language models in text
matching tasks, we conducted evaluations using
OpenAI’s GPT-3.5 interface. For each query in
the test set paired with 10 questions, we instructed

GPT-3.5 to provide relevance scores for these 10
pairs.
Q-Q Matching. The traditional models of text
matching are based on Q-Q pairs. The BERT and
GPT-2 use the training set for fine-tuning based
on the pre-trained parameters. After the model
training, the prepared Q-Q pairs will be fed into the
matching model to obtain the matching probability
of the two questions and compare them with the
other baselines we proposed.
ANCE-PRF Matching. To verify the effectiveness of our proposal, we compare with a recent
baseline ANCE-PRF (Yu et al., 2021) that automatically retrieves queries from a dense retrieval
model, ANCE, and then uses a BERT encoder to
consume the origin query and the top retrieved positive queries to produce a better query embedding,
and then performs Q-Q matching. In the work of
ANCE-PRF, all retrieved candidates are concatenated together into an extended text segment, which
is then fed into BERT for a refined representation.
4.4

Training and Evaluation

Both models are implemented using PyTorch. For
VAE implementations, the embedding is initialized
the same way as BERT with the pre-train vector.
The noise is sampled from ϵ ∼ N ormal(0, 1). The
batch size is set to 128. The encoder is a bidirectional GRU with 512 hidden units in each direction.
The encoder and decoder units are both GRUs with

512 hidden units. The hidden layers of the encoder
and decoder are set to 2 and 1, respectively. Before reconstruction, the ratio of the mask tokens is
set to 1.0. For the QBS module, the hidden size
of LSTM is set to 128, and the dropout is set to
0.5. For the transformer of the QBF module, the
hidden size, attention heads, the number of hidden
layers, and the dropout are set to 768, 8, 2, and 0.1,
respectively. The max length of the sequence is 30
in LaiYe and 50 in Quora. For the hyperparameters
in loss function, τ , τ1 , τ2 are set to 0.7, 0.0001,
0.001. For the training process, we then set the
learning rate lr to 1e-5. We validate the matching
model using the held-out validation set every 0.1
epoch. More implementation details can be found
in Section 3.
For evaluation, we adopt standard metrics to assess retrieval performance. These metrics include
Recall (R@k), which evaluates how many of the
total relevant items are captured in the top-k recommendations. Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR) refers
to the average of the reciprocal ranks of the first
relevant item in the list of recommendations.

5

Results and Discussion

Table 2 demonstrates the main experimental results
on the LaiYe, and Quora datasets on the baselines,
QBS and QBF modules with different strategies
applied. Table 3 refers to the performance variation
with different candidates selection in our proposed
framework. Figure 3(a) and 3(b) shows the result
of different dense retrieval settings. Figure 3(c) reveals the accuracy of query selection in QBS module. We analyze these results from the following
perspectives.
5.1

Comparison with Baselines

Based on the results in Table 2, we found that
the PRF framework effectively increase the performance of matching models in the informationseeking system. Specifically, the matching models
using query-bags are better than the simple BERT
and GPT-2 models. The improvement is more significant on the LaiYe dataset, while the increase
on BERT is notable than the GPT-2 model. Possibly due to GPT’s training limitation of only observing left-side context, its performance in tasks
requiring global context comprehension, such as
semantic understanding and text classification, may
not be as superior as that of BERT. During training, we also found that the model will converge to

the best status faster and much more stable when
using the PRF framework. Despite being a powerful language model with broad capabilities, we
observed that GPT-3.5 yields significantly poorer
results compared to BERT. This discrepancy could
be attributed to several factors, including BERT’s
pre-training objectives, token-level representation,
fine-tuning mechanism, and model characteristics,
all of which may contribute to its superior performance in classification tasks.
The results of ANCE-PRF slightly outperform
BERT and GPT-2, indicating that ANCE has enhanced the representation of the original query to
some extent. However, the results of ANCE-PRF
are not as good as those of our model, suggesting
that our model has improvements in both queries
filtering and queries fusion. This can be observed
through the results of ANCE-PRF without QBS.
From the results of QB-PRF without QBS and
BERT with ANCE-PRF, it is evident that the performance significantly decreases when QBS operation
is not conducted. This indirectly demonstrates the
effectiveness of the QBS module. Additionally, to
validate the effectiveness of QBF under different
strategies, we also performed sum and mean operations on the query-bags selected by QBS with the
original query. The results indicate that these two
operations introduce noticeable instability in the
final performance. This experiment also confirms
the robustness of our QBF module.
5.2

Ablation Study

We conduct two ablation studies to examine different components of our framework. Firstly, we
omit the QBS and incorporate the top-k query candidates obtained from dense retrieval into fusion
for query refinement. Secondly, we eliminate the
QBF process, where the query-bag generated by
the QBS module is fused with the original query
using summation to create a refined representation.
Subsequently, this refined query representation is
directly fed into the matching models to enhance
performance. The ablation study results in Table 2
indicate that each component of the QB-PRF framework plays a critical role in enhancing its overall
effectiveness. The presence of the QBS module is
crucial for precision optimization, as its omission
results in a notable precision increase in query-bag
and aids in more effectively enhancing the representation of the query. It shows some improvements
when we look into the results of fusion after retrieval without QBS. That infers the effectiveness

Figure 3: (a) Recall denotes the size of query-bag in datasets with regard to different candidate set size after dense
retrieval in Figure 2. (b) Accuracy refers to the proportion that belong to the query-bag with different candidate set
size. (c) Performance on different evaluation steps. We evaluate the performance every 0.1 epoch.

of VAE pre-train with contrastive learning on the
large-scale dataset. There is a significant drop in
R10@1 when the QBF is excluded, underscoring
its vital role in refining queries for subsequent text
matching processes.

reduce noise. In practical applications, we need
to select different top-k settings according to the
dataset’s characteristics, such as the LaiYe dataset
having substantial diversity. The specified settings
can achieve the best results.

5.3

5.4

Size of Query-bag

According to Table 2, Table 3, Figure 3(a) and Figure 3(b), several observations are worth mentioning.
In Table 3, we evaluate our framework with different counts of retrieval candidates. As shown, recall
of 3 or 5 also brings better results, and it shows
that we can always benefit from similar questions
even if the count is limited. Experiments have verified query-bags’ effectiveness, but the quantity and
quality of query-bags do not always bring maximum improvement.
According to Figure 3(a), we can see that the
average query-bag size of LaiYe is relatively large.
For the BERT model, the metric R10 @1 lifts an increase of 6.1 percent. Compared to LaiYe dataset,
in Quora, with a smaller average query-bag size,
the same metric lifts 4.5 percent on BERT. When
verifying strong models such as BERT, even when
the size of query-bags is small, the performance on
the Quora dataset is still strong. In combination
with Table 2 and Figure 3(a), with the increase of
question candidates, the size of the recalled querybag gradually increases. Before the QBS process,
there was more noise in the query-bag candidates,
especially in the Quora dataset. The proportion of
real query-bags in the recall of 10 candidates is
only 9%. Many noises directly lead to the decline
of the fusion effect, and certain noises can be tolerated when the diversity of queries is substantial. In
Figure 3(b), as the top-k value increases, the accuracy of the query candidates decreases, indicating
a higher presence of noise within the query-bag.
And our QBS module is designed specifically to

QBS Performance Tracking

QBS, QBF, and the Matching module are jointly
trained. In order to validate the effectiveness of
QBS in selecting query-bags, we track the accuracy of the QBS module. For the top-k candidate
queries obtained from dense retrieval, we provide
ground truth annotations based on their semantic
consistency with the query. During performance
evaluation at several evaluation steps within each
epoch, we simultaneously assess the accuracy of
QBS in selecting query-bags. As indicated by the
blue curve in Figure 3(c), the performance of QBS
continues to improve over time.

6

Conslusion

In this paper, we propose a Query-bag Pseudo Relevance Feedback framework for an informationseeking conversation system. To enable the framework to learn from diversified representation, we
proposed a QBS module to learn to select relevant
queries from question set to form the query-bag.
Such a module enriches the original query through
additional information and enables the framework
to learn distinctive representation. With the selected query-bag, we then utilized the proposed
QBF module to fuse the information of query-bags
and eventually receive a distinctive query representation. With the refined query representation, we
can then perform the downstream text-matching
task. To assess the efficacy of our suggested framework, we conducted thorough experiments utilizing
competitive pretrained backbone models. The experimental outcomes validate the effectiveness of

our approach in enhancing text-matching performance across the pretrained models.

Limitations
There are two main limitations in our approach.
First, the retrieved query-bags candidates are relatively scarce. It may cause the PRF framework
to have imbalanced query-bag quantity and quality. In the future, we shall verify the efficiency of
our method after improving the recall of retrieval.
Second, since, our framework applies to any neural
model for any task since it proves the efficiency of
information fusion with relevant data. It is valuable
to manipulate in other tasks, such as retrieval-based
dialogue or retrieval-augmented generation.

References
Xiuyi Chen, Feilong Chen, Shuang Xu, and Bo Xu.
2022. A multi domain knowledge enhanced matching network for response selection in retrieval-based
dialogue systems. In ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP), pages 6597–6601. IEEE.
Zhenxin Fu, Shaobo Cui, Mingyue Shang, Feng Ji,
Dongyan Zhao, Haiqing Chen, and Rui Yan. 2020.
Context-to-session matching: Utilizing whole session for response selection in information-seeking
dialogue systems. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM
SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery & data mining, pages 1605–1613.
Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Chang Liu, Li Liu, Dongyan
Zhao, and Rui Yan. 2020. Learning to respond with
stickers: A framework of unifying multi-modality in
multi-turn dialog. In Proceedings of the Web Conference 2020, pages 1138–1148.
Shen Gao, Xiuying Chen, Li Liu, Dongyan Zhao, and
Rui Yan. 2021. Learning to respond with your
favorite stickers: A framework of unifying multimodality and user preference in multi-turn dialog.
ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS),
39(2):1–32.
Manas Gaur, Kalpa Gunaratna, Vijay Srinivasan, and
Hongxia Jin. 2022. Iseeq: Information seeking question generation using dynamic meta-information retrieval and knowledge graphs. In Proceedings of
the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 36, pages 10672–10680.
Janghoon Han, Taesuk Hong, Byoungjae Kim,
Youngjoong Ko, and Jungyun Seo. 2021. Finegrained post-training for improving retrieval-based
dialogue systems. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 1549–1558.

Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. 2013. Autoencoding variational bayes.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1312.6114.
Tian Lan, Deng Cai, Yan Wang, Yixuan Su, Heyan
Huang, and Xian-Ling Mao. 2024. Exploring dense
retrieval for dialogue response selection. ACM Transactions on Information Systems, 42(3):1–29.
Mingzhe Li, Xiuying Chen, Jing Xiang, Qishen Zhang,
Changsheng Ma, Chenchen Dai, Jinxiong Chang,
Zhongyi Liu, and Guannan Zhang. 2024. Multiintent attribute-aware text matching in searching.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.07788.
Ryan Lowe, Nissan Pow, Iulian Serban, and Joelle
Pineau. 2015. The ubuntu dialogue corpus: A large
dataset for research in unstructured multi-turn dialogue systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.08909.
Wentao Ma, Yiming Cui, Nan Shao, Su He, Wei-Nan
Zhang, Ting Liu, Shijin Wang, and Guoping Hu.
2019. Triplenet: Triple attention network for multiturn response selection in retrieval-based chatbots.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.10666.
Haojie Pan, Cen Chen, Chengyu Wang, Minghui Qiu,
Liu Yang, Feng Ji, and Jun Huang. 2021. Learning to expand: Reinforced response expansion for
information-seeking conversations. In Proceedings
of the 30th ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge Management, pages 4055–
4064.
Minghui Qiu, Liu Yang, Feng Ji, Weipeng Zhao,
Wei Zhou, Jun Huang, Haiqing Chen, W Bruce
Croft, and Wei Lin. 2018. Transfer learning for
context-aware question matching in informationseeking conversations in e-commerce. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1806.05434.
Paul Solomon. 1997. Conversation in informationseeking contexts: A test of an analytical framework.
Library & Information Science Research, 19(3):217–
248.
Svitlana Vakulenko, Kate Revoredo, Claudio Di Ciccio,
and Maarten de Rijke. 2019. Qrfa: A data-driven
model of information-seeking dialogues. In European conference on information retrieval, pages 541–
557. Springer.
Nikos Voskarides, Dan Li, Pengjie Ren, Evangelos
Kanoulas, and Maarten de Rijke. 2020. Query resolution for conversational search with limited supervision. In Proceedings of the 43rd International ACM
SIGIR conference on research and development in
Information Retrieval, pages 921–930.
Yu Wu, Wei Wu, Chen Xing, Ming Zhou, and Zhoujun
Li. 2016. Sequential matching network: A new architecture for multi-turn response selection in retrievalbased chatbots. arXiv preprint arXiv:1612.01627.

Rui Yan, Yiping Song, and Hua Wu. 2016. Learning to
respond with deep neural networks for retrieval-based
human-computer conversation system. In Proceedings of the 39th International ACM SIGIR conference
on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 55–64.
Liu Yang, Minghui Qiu, Chen Qu, Cen Chen, Jiafeng
Guo, Yongfeng Zhang, W Bruce Croft, and Haiqing
Chen. 2020. Iart: Intent-aware response ranking with
transformers in information-seeking conversation systems. In Proceedings of The Web Conference 2020,
pages 2592–2598.
Liu Yang, Minghui Qiu, Chen Qu, Jiafeng Guo,
Yongfeng Zhang, W Bruce Croft, Jun Huang, and
Haiqing Chen. 2018.
Response ranking with
deep matching networks and external knowledge in
information-seeking conversation systems. In The
41st international acm sigir conference on research
& development in information retrieval, pages 245–
254.
HongChien Yu, Chenyan Xiong, and Jamie Callan. 2021.
Improving query representations for dense retrieval
with pseudo relevance feedback. In Proceedings of
the 30th ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge Management, pages 3592–3596.
Xiangyang Zhou, Lu Li, Daxiang Dong, Yi Liu, Ying
Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Dianhai Yu, and Hua Wu.
2018. Multi-turn response selection for chatbots with
deep attention matching network. In Proceedings
of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 1118–1127.

