How Well Do Multi-modal LLMs Interpret CT Scans?
An Auto-Evaluation Framework for Analyses

arXiv:2403.05680v2 [cs.AI] 18 Jun 2024

Qingqing Zhu1,* , Benjamin Hou2,5,* , Tejas Sudarshan Mathai2 , Pritam Mukherjee2 ,
Qiao Jin1 , Xiuying Chen4 , Zhizheng Wang1 , Ruida Cheng3 ,
Ronald M. Summers2,** , Zhiyong Lu1,**
1
National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine,
2
Imaging Biomarkers and Computer-Aided Diagnosis Laboratory, Clinical Center,
3
Center for Information Technology, National Institutes of Health,
4
King Abdullah University of Science & Technology,
5
Biomedical Image Analysis, Imperial College London
∗
Joint co-authors, ∗∗ Joint senior co-authors
Abstract
Automatically interpreting CT scans can ease
the workload of radiologists. However, this
is challenging mainly due to the scarcity of
adequate datasets and reference standards for
evaluation. This study aims to bridge this gap
by introducing a novel evaluation framework,
named “GPTRadScore”. This framework assesses the capabilities of multi-modal LLMs,
such as GPT-4 with Vision (GPT-4V), Gemini
Pro Vision, LLaVA-Med, and RadFM, in generating descriptions for prospectively-identified
findings. By employing a decomposition technique based on GPT-4, GPTRadScore compares these generated descriptions with goldstandard report sentences, analyzing their accuracy in terms of body part, location, and
type of finding. Evaluations demonstrated a
high correlation with clinician assessments and
highlighted its potential over traditional metrics, such as BLEU, METEOR, and ROUGE.
Furthermore, to contribute to future studies, we
plan to release a benchmark dataset annotated
by clinicians. Using GPTRadScore, we found
that while GPT-4V and Gemini Pro Vision fare
better, their performance revealed significant
areas for improvement, primarily due to limitations in the dataset used for training these
models. To demonstrate this potential, RadFM
was fine-tuned and it resulted in significant accuracy improvements: location accuracy rose
from 3.41% to 12.8%, body part accuracy from
29.12% to 53%, and type accuracy from 9.24%
to 30%, thereby validating our hypothesis.

1

Introduction

In current clinical practice, a radiologist communicates the results of an imaging exam for a patient
to their referring doctor through a signed report.
While reading the patient exam, the radiologist routinely use Speech Recognition Software (SRS) that

converts dictated speech into text. SRS has significantly reduced the report turn-around time. However, any errors resulting from the dictation have
to be corrected by the radiologists themselves, and
persistent errors can negatively impact the interpretation of patient diagnoses and can have medicolegal ramifications (Smith and Berlin, 2001). These
errors are most common for cross-sectional imaging (Ringler et al., 2017), such as CT and MR, and
the volume of these exams has steadily increased
each year (Mahesh et al., 2023). This has led to
a 54-72% radiologist burn-out rate (Fawzy et al.,
2023) where they are under increased pressure to
deal with a substantially higher number of patients
while maintaining a high level of accuracy.
To ameliorate the radiologist workload, various
transformer-based approaches have been proposed
to generate radiology reports in one shot (Chen
et al., 2020, 2021). However, these efforts focus
mainly on chest radiographs (CXR), with limited
attention to CT (Ichinose et al., 2023). Developing CT-based reporting methods is challenging
due to the 3D nature of CT data, computational
complexity, and the factual accuracy of reporting
needed. Recent advances with Large Language
Models (LLMs) like GPT-4 (Achiam et al., 2023),
GPT-4 Vision (GPT-4V), Gemini Pro Vision (Team
Gemini et al., 2023), LLaVA-Med (Li et al., 2024),
and Radiology Foundation Model (RadFM) (Wu
et al., 2023) show potential for various tasks, such
as taking medical exams, note-taking, and disease
diagnosis (Tian et al., 2024; Nori et al., 2023; Jin
et al., 2023). These multi-modal models could prefill the “findings” section of radiology reports for
quick review by radiologists (Zhu et al., 2023).
Despite these advances, crucial factors determining their clinical use involve: (1) radiologist trust,

and (2) easy interpretation and evaluation of the
generated content. Current evaluation metrics, including Natural Language Generation (NLG) and
Clinical Efficacy (CE) metrics, are notoriously limited (Irvin et al., 2019; Zhu et al., 2023, 2024; Jin
et al., 2024) when it comes to capturing the semantic richness and clinical relevance necessary
for radiology reports. Additionally, they lack the
explanatory power that is required for clinical use.
In this paper, we present a novel evaluation
framework to assess the capability of multi-modal
LLMs to generate diagnostically accurate descriptions of CT-based findings for radiology reports.
CT slices with an abnormal finding were fed to a
multi-modal LLM (e.g., GPT-4V) that generated a
description of the abnormality. A language-centric
GPT-4 model decomposed the summary into its
characteristics (body part, location, type), evaluated them against gold-standard references, and
scored the description based on its clinical relevance and accuracy. Our contribution can be summarized as follows:
• We introduced a new framework named “GPTRadScore”, designed to evaluate the accuracy of
multi-modal LLMs in describing CT scan findings,
specifically focusing on the precision of identifying
body parts, locations, and types of findings.
• To validate this approach, we conducted human
evaluations on 500 cases in collaboration with clinicians. Furthermore, we intend to publicly release
these expert annotations (with CC-BY-NC-SA 4.0
licence) to establish a new benchmark for accuracy
in future assessments.
• Four recent multi-modal LLMs were evaluated
for their ability to describe CT findings.
• RadFM was fine-tuned with domain-specific data
to improve its generation accuracy.

2

Related Works

Early efforts in extracting pathologies utilized NLG
rules, which were crafted to isolate specific disease
features. Notable examples include the cheXpertlabeler and NegBio (Wang et al., 2017; Peng et al.,
2018; Irvin et al., 2019), both of which were employed to derive disease labels in chest X-rays.
With the advent of transformer models, notably
the BERT model, a more advanced solution, the
cheXbert-labeler, was introduced. The cheXbertlabeler is a model specifically trained on the CheXpert dataset to perform this task.
As LLMs gain popularity, their integration into

radiology becomes increasingly inevitable. These
models, including multimodal LLMs, are set to
assist in clinical decisions, extract information from
clinical notes, and generate radiological reports,
showcasing their broad utility in the field (Zhou
et al., 2023b,a; Bhayana, 2024; Tian et al., 2024).
LLMs possess the advanced capability for complex reasoning, making them highly suitable for
analyzing AI-generated radiological reports in comparison to ground truth. Leveraging LLMs to evaluate radiological reports harnesses their analytical
power and provides a scalable solution for managing large datasets, potentially containing thousands
of reports. Relying on clinicians to validate these
reports is an inefficient use of their time, given their
essential roles in direct patient care and decisionmaking. By using LLMs for initial evaluations,
healthcare systems can reserve clinicians’ expertise for tasks where human judgment is crucial,
optimizing resources and potentially speeding up
the diagnostic process.
Wang et al. (2024) recently introduced LLMRadJudge, a method that compares the performance of various LLMs and demonstrates that using GPT-4, their proposed metric achieves evaluation consistency close to that of radiologists. Furthermore, they constructed a dataset based on LLM
evaluation results and used knowledge distillation
to train a smaller model, which achieves evaluation
capabilities comparable to GPT-4. Similarly, Liu
et al. (2024) proposed MRScore, a framework akin
to LLM-RadJudge. Zhu et al. (2024) proposed a
method that combines the expertise of professional
radiologists with LLMs such as GPT-3.5 and GPT4. Using In-Context Instruction Learning (ICIL)
and Chain of Thought (CoT) reasoning to align
LLM evaluations with radiologist standards, experimental results demonstrated greater alignment
with expert evaluations, surpassing traditional NLG
metrics such as BLEU, ROUGE, and METEOR.
Despite these advancements, there is still no automated system for validating the clinical accuracy
of CT reports, largely because of the scarcity of
high-quality datasets and the complexity of CT
imaging, which involves a broad range of body
parts and requires extensive anatomical knowledge.
This paper introduces GPTRadScore, a novel evaluation framework that assesses the capabilities of
multimodal LLMs. It uses a decomposition method
based on GPT-4, which mimics clinicians’ evaluation processes, comparing AI-generated descriptions with the actual ground truth across factors

such as body part, location, and type.

3

Methods

This study introduces a novel “GPTRadScore”
framework for evaluating the accuracy of multimodal LLMs in generating clinical descriptions of
CT-based findings. Figure 1 illustrates the experimental design. We break down the experimental
setting into two integral steps: 1. Generating Descriptions of CT Findings: (1)Visual Context Integration: CT slices with abnormalities are marked
with bounding boxes to provide clear visual context
to the multi-modal LLMs. (2) Text-Based Chain-ofThought (CoT): The multi-modal LLMs generate
free-text descriptions of the abnormalities, focusing
on body part, specific location, and type of finding.
(3) Fine-Tuning RadFM: RadFM was fine-tuned
using domain-specific data from the DeepLesion
dataset to improve its accuracy in generating clinically relevant descriptions of findings. 2. Evaluation Process (GPTRadScore): GPT-4 was used to
compare the generated descriptions against goldstandard report sentences. Scores were assigned
based on clinical relevance and accuracy, mimicking clinician assessment.
3.1

Dataset

To the best of our knowledge, no publicly available dataset pairs CT exams with corresponding
radiology reports for lesions. For this retrospective
study, the DeepLesion dataset (Yan et al., 2018)
was utilized. The dataset comprises 23,436 CT
slices and 8,340 studies with reports from 3,832 patients (mean age: 51, s.d.: 17; 2,085 males). Report
sentences containing prospective RECIST-based
measurements, made by radiologists and referred
to as “bookmarks”, were extracted using regular
expressions. An enclosed bounding box was also
created from the prospective measurement to highlight the finding in the CT slice.
The main portion of this experiment utilizes a
subset of the DeepLesion dataset (Yan et al., 2019),
which comprises 496 CT volumes (496 studies)
from 486 patients (mean age: 52.2, s.d.: 17.7; 294
males). The subset contained 500 lesions of various kinds (e.g., liver, kidney, bone, etc.) that were
prospectively marked in 500 CT slices. The subset
also provided specific characteristics of lesions that
were extracted from the sentences in the radiology
reports using an automated method. These included
the body part where the lesion is located, the fine-

grain location within that region (e.g., upper pole
of left kidney), and the type of lesion attributes. As
certain lesion characteristics were missed by the
automated extraction, two board-certified radiologists, each with 10+ years of experience, manually
reviewed and comprehensively annotated any missing lesion characteristics.
3.2

Visual Context Integration

In addition to the CT slice that shows the abnormal
finding, a visual prompt was also provided. This
prompt, in the form of a bounding box, delineated
the abnormality before being input into the multimodal LLM. The clear visual context was hypothesized to enhance the accuracy of the generated
descriptions of findings.
3.3

Text-Based CoT

Through Text-Based CoT, the free-text abnormality description generated by a multi-modal LLM
should contain the following aspects: Body Part,
Location (specific), and Lesion Type. The prompt
used for this task was designed to allow the model
to concentrate on each aspect individually, thereby
optimizing the use of its natural language generation capabilities to produce clinically relevant and
informative descriptions. This approach contrasted
with the one-shot methods (Wei et al., 2022) that
attempted to generate entire reports in a single step
without explicit intermediate reasoning.
“Body Part” is the larger anatomical region or
organ of the body (e.g. liver) where the lesion or
abnormality is situated. “Location” refers to the
specific site within a body part (e.g., Couinaud
segment 2 of liver) where the abnormality is located. “Type” includes classifications, such as nodule, mass, or enlarged lymph node. The description
should be concise and clinically relevant, such that
the characteristics of the findings can be pre-filled
in the findings section of a radiology report.
Through experiments, it was observed that
LLaVA-Med and RadFM were unable to leverage
text-based CoT as shown in Figure 2. GPT-4V and
Gemini Pro Vision effectively used CoT to provide
detailed and relevant descriptions, demonstrating
stronger comprehension skills. In contrast, LLaVAMed, despite being tasked with using CoT, did not
produce an analysis related to CoT, focusing instead on the visual elements of the scan, such as
the bounding box. RadFM also showed limited capability and offered minimal output, which aligned
with findings in literature (Kim et al., 2023). This

bbox

w/o bbox

GPT4-V
Gemini Pro Vision
CT slice
w/ pathology

Predicted
Text

LLaVA-Med
RadFM

Prompt:
Imagine you are
a radiologist...

Evaluation Pipeline

Vision LLMs

RadFM (FT)

NLG Metrics

Clinician

GPTRad
Score

BLEU-[1,2,3,4]

Location

Location

ROUGEL

Body Parts

Body Parts

METEOR

Type

Type

Ground Truth
Text

Dataset:
- 500 slices, 500 nodules
- 486 patients (294M, 192F)

Correlation Score

Figure 1: “GPTRadScore” framework for the auto-evaluation of LLM descriptions of CT-based findings. CT slices
with outlined lesions were fed to vision-based LLMs that generated a description of the finding. They were then
evaluated against the gold-standard sentences by a clinician, with NLG metrics, and auto-evaluation with GPT-4.
Case Study

Ground Truth: right renal parapelvic cyst.
GPT-4V: Location: Right abdomen, near the kidney;
Body Part: Abdomen, kidney; Type: Mass; Impression: Well-circumscribed homogenous mass in the
right abdomen, adjacent to the right kidney.
Gemini Pro Vision: Location: Right kidney; Body
Part: Kidney; Type: Mass; Impression: Right renal
mass, likely benign.
LLaVA-Med: The image is an axial computed tomography (CT) scan that has been annotated with a
bounding box by a radiologist. The bounding box is
a rectangular box that encloses the lesion, which is
indicated in green. This helps to highlight the area
of interest and provides a clear view of the lesion’s
location, size, and shape.
RadFM: { Lesion 1 }

Figure 2: Comparison of the responses from multimodal LLMs (using CoT reasoning) for a renal cyst
in the right kidney. Red, blue and purple fonts denote incorrect, correct, and uncertain descriptions respectively.

discrepancy highlighted the architectural or design
limitations that hinder certain models from effectively processing input information in a sequential
manner. Additional comparative analyses, including those with and without CoT, are detailed in the
supplementary material.

3.4

Fine-Tuning RadFM

These models have not been specifically fine-tuned
for lesion detection on Chest CT scans. Instead,
they are often applied in a zero-shot setting, where
they are expected to generalize without prior training on the specific task (Li et al., 2024). To address
this, RadFM was fine-tuned using domain-specific
non-overlap data from the DeepLesion subset (Yan
et al., 2019), to enhance its ability to produce clinically accurate descriptions of CT findings. FineTuning the model required 1 x 80GB A100 GPU,
and took approx. 4 days. We believe a major reason
for these issues is the lack of public datasets with
paired CT studies and detailed descriptions of findings, which are essential for training effective medical imaging models, so we prepossess this dataset
fist. The initial dataset, created by radiologists,
was not formatted suitably for direct fine-tuning.
Therefore, we utilized the GPT-4 API to systematically organize the findings; relevant descriptions
of findings and measurements were extracted (sample examples are in the supplementary material).
Cases lacking informative descriptions were excluded, resulting in a refined dataset comprising
17,907 descriptions linked with CT images for finetuning. These descriptions served as the ground
truth for the fine-tuning process. The enhanced
model, designated as RadFM (FT), utilized these
datasets. The effectiveness of RadFM (FT) was subsequently assessed using the “GPTRadScore” evaluation framework, confirming the enhancements in
its performance.
3.5

GPTRadScore: Evaluation using GPT-4

“GPTRadScore” is the cornerstone of our framework, leveraging GPT-4 to replicate the evaluation processes traditionally conducted by radiol-

ogists. This system assesses the ability of other
multimodal LLMs to generate accurate descriptions for prospectively-identified radiological findings. Specifically, GPT-4 evaluates the accuracy of
summaries provided by multimodal LLMs against
gold-standard sentences derived from the DeepLesion dataset. Prioritizing criteria most significant
to radiologists, the evaluation is segmented into
three key aspects: body part, location, and type.
For each category, GPT-4 assigned one of the following categorical scores: “Correct”, “Partially
Correct”, “Incorrect”, and “Not Applicable”. A
“Correct” score indicated a completely accurate interpretation. “Partially Correct” suggested the interpretation captured some aspects accurately, but
lacked complete precision or detail. “Incorrect”
implied the interpretation did not align with the
gold-standard at any level. “Not Applicable” was
used when relevant information was omitted from
the description and thus evaluated was not possible. Detailed instructions provided to GPT-4, as
outlined in the supplementary materials, guided the
model to analyze these predictions in a manner akin
to clinical judgment. Meanwhile, GPT-4 provided
relevant explanations when scoring (see supplementary material) and this capability underscored
the advantages of leveraging GPT-4 for complex
medical evaluation tasks, where it is crucial to understand detailed anatomical context.

4

Experiment Setup

4.1

Human Evaluation Process

To assess the effectiveness of GPT-4 in automatically evaluating findings from multimodal LLMs,
we need to establish a human evaluation baseline.
This involves comparing AI-generated findings
with the ground truth as evaluated by a human expert. We undertook a human evaluation through
a structured, collaborative, and iterative process.
For this analysis, we randomly selected 100 lesions from a total pool of 500 for each of the five
models evaluated: GPT-4V, Gemini Pro Vision,
LLaVA-Med, RadFM, and RadFM (FT). Initially,
the 500 cases (100 from each model) were analyzed by three graders (PhDs) with bioinformatics
backgrounds. The grading guidelines provided mirror the prompt issued to GPT-4. These assessments
were subsequently reviewed and enriched with clinical insights during discussions with a clinician.
Any ambiguous findings were collaboratively refined and confirmed, ensuring that the final evalua-

tions were both scientifically robust and clinically
relevant. The outcomes of this process is then compared with GPT-4’s evaluation of the same report.
4.2

Implementation Details

The Advanced 1.5 Pro setting of Gemini Pro Vision
was used. LLaVA-Med and RadFM were run using
the default configurations. For the model evaluation, we employed the Azure API for GPT-4, configured with a “temperature” of 0, “top_p” of 0.95,
“max_tokens” of 4000, and the “model_version” set
to “2024-02-15-preview”.
4.3

Metrics

The quality of the generated descriptions were initially assessed using traditional NLG metrics from
Huggingface evalaute package, including BLEU,
METEOR, and ROUGE. Then, following the approach suggested (Zhu et al., 2024), we conducted
an auto-evaluation using GPTRadScore, where the
model’s predictions were compared against goldstandard annotations. Additionally, these evaluations were compared with assessments conducted
by a clinician. The Pearson’s Correlation Coefficient (Pearson, 1895) between the GPTRadScore
and clinician evaluations served as an indicator of
GPT-4’s reliability for auto-evaluation tasks.

5

Results and Discussion

5.1

Traditional NLG Metrics Analysis

Results: Table 1 evaluates multi-modal LLMs using traditional NLG metrics, and differentiates their
performance in scenarios with and without bounding box constraints. RadFM (FT) bbox model exhibited outstanding performance across all NLG
metrics, and particularly excelled at structural alignment and linguistic matching. GPT-4V bbox with
CoT and Gemini Pro Version bbox with CoT also
performed well; GPT-4V bbox with CoT achieved
the highest METEOR score of 0.165. Conversely,
the non-fine-tuned versions of RadFM, LLAVAMed, and GPT-4V without CoT exhibited substantially lower performance. This decline is likely due
to significant domain shift of the test dataset (radiology reports) in contrast to the model training
dataset. Despite this discrepancy, the experiment
was setup to expose the limitations of traditional
NLG metrics.
Limitations of traditional metrics: While traditional NLG metrics are valuable for assessing linguistic quality, they do not fully capture the clinical

Model

BLEU_1

BLEU_2

BLEU_3

BLEU_4

ROUGE

METEOR

GPT-4V

bbox CoT
w/o bbox CoT
bbox w/o CoT
w/o bbox w/o CoT

0.164
0.099
0.057
0.022

0.048
0.016
0.007
0.002

0.015
0.004
0.002
0.000

0.003
0.000
0.000
0.000

0.171
0.103
0.057
0.029

0.165
0.107
0.146
0.071

Gemini Pro Vision

bbox CoT
w/o bbox CoT
bbox w/o CoT
w/o bbox w/o CoT

0.160
0.116
0.061
0.025

0.037
0.025
0.014
0.005

0.007
0.006
0.004
0.001

0.000
0.000
0.001
0.000

0.180
0.137
0.085
0.045

0.137
0.108
0.140
0.075

LLAVA-Med

bbox
w/o bbox

0.024
0.028

0.002
0.002

0.000
0.000

0.000
0.000

0.025
0.031

0.062
0.069

RadFM

bbox
w/o bbox

0.096
0.094

0.011
0.010

0.000
0.001

0.000
0.000

0.075
0.075

0.095
0.095

RadFM (FT)

bbox
w/o bbox

0.203
0.187

0.058
0.052

0.016
0.015

0.002
0.001

0.205
0.195

0.159
0.151

Table 1: Comparative performance of various natural language generation models using BLEU, ROUGE, and
METEOR metrics, including fine-tuned RadFM (FT). “bbox” meant with bounding box, “w/o bbox” meant without
bounding box. These metrics, which measured word overlap, showed low scores across the board. This suggested
limitations in handling tasks that require deep contextual understanding. This highlighted the need for more
sophisticated evaluation methods to gauge true performance.

relevance of the generated descriptions. In clinical
settings, the priority lies in the factual accuracy
and clinical relevance of generated summary over
mere linguistic fidelity. This highlights the need for
more robust evaluation methods that better mirror
the utility in medical contexts.
5.2

Correlation between Clinician,
GPTRadScore, Traditional Metrics

Figure 3 shows the correlation between the various metrics computed based on the ground truth
evaluation, GPTRadScore, and traditional NLG
metrics. Traditional NLG metrics like BLEU and
METEOR demonstrate strong correlations amongst
themselves (purple box), particularly at lower levels of precision like BLEU-1 and BLEU-2. This
indicated a consistency in evaluating the linguistic
quality of generated texts at these levels. However,
at higher precision levels (BLEU-3 and BLEU-4),
these correlations significantly weaken, particularly
for LLaVA-Med, where scores frequently register
at zero and indicate no correlation. This pattern
again reflects the limitations of traditional metrics
in evaluating complex sentence structures typical
in radiology reports.
Furthermore, the decomposition of the description into specific aspects (location, body part, and
lesion type) revealed insightful patterns (peach
box). These aspects showed a lack of strong correlation with one another, and other pairings also
displayed no significant correlation. These obser-

vations affirmed the efficacy of the approach in
dissecting the findings into their granular elements,
such that the distinct parts of report quality can be
assessed independently.
Comparing traditional metrics with the ground
truth evaluation showed a weak correlation, suggesting that these metrics may not serve as reliable indicators of clinical accuracy for radiology
reports (blue box). This highlighted a potential gap
in utilizing NLG metrics for assessing the clinical relevance of generated reports, pointing to the
necessity for domain-specific evaluation methods.
Lastly, the comparison between GPTRadScore
and the ground truth evaluation showed the strength
of our framework (pink box), and summarized
in Table 2. The results showed a strong correlation with ground truth, suggesting that GPTRadScore closely aligned with the clinical assessment
paradigms utilized by radiologists. This observation underscored the potential of LLMs like GPT-4
in accurately mirroring radiologists’ evaluations,
offering promise for automating assessment with a
high degree of fidelity to clinical standards.

GPT-4V
Gemini Pro Vision
LLaVA-Med
RadFM
RadFM (FT)

Location

Body Part

Type

Avg.

p-value

0.86
0.87
0.59
0.99
0.96

0.90
0.91
0.83
0.92
0.83

0.84
0.96
0.76
0.82
0.89

0.87 ± 0.02
0.91 ± 0.03
0.75 ± 0.10
0.90 ± 0.07
0.89 ± 0.05

<0.001
<0.001
<0.001
<0.001
<0.001

Table 2: Correlation scores between the clinician and
GPT-4 grading of reports.

Figure 3: Heatmap of pairwise Pearson’s Correlation Coefficient among various grading scores; traditional metrics,
Clinician evaluations and GPTRadScore for Gemini Pro Vision, GPT-4V, LLaVA-Med, RadFM, and RadFM (FT).
Color intensity indicates the strength of correlation, with darker shades representing higher correlation.

5.3

GPTRadScore Evaluation

Due to the strong correlation between the GPTRadScore and clinician evaluations, GPTRadScore was
employed to assess the predicted findings against
the ground truth for all 500 lesions for three categories: location, body part, and type of abnormality.
Figure 4 displays the grading scores across four
configurations: with and without lesion bounding
boxes in the CT slice, and with and without textbased CoT. Notably, LLaVA-Med and RadFM do
not support text-based CoT processes; thus, this
figure exclusively presents the use of CoT in the
GPT-4V and Gemini Pro Vision models. Bounding boxes consistently enhanced identification of
body part and location across all models, thereby
indicating a dependency on strong visual cues for
accurate recognition. For example, GPT-4V and
Gemini Pro Vision performed better with bounding
boxes, particularly for accurate body part identification.
To better illustrate the impact of CoT reasoning, besides this figure, we have included correct
classification percentages for GPT-4V and Gemini Pro Version with bounding boxes in Table 3.
CoT significantly boosts type classification accuracy, with improvements of 28.1% for GPT-4V
(from 16.5% to 44.6%) and 14.39% for Gemini Pro
Vision (from 28.78% to 43.17%). However, its influence on location and body part classifications is

less pronounced and may even hinder performance
in some cases. This suggests that the structured
reasoning provided by CoT particularly benefits
complex decision-making tasks requiring nuanced
interpretation and detailed contextual understanding. Conversely, for simpler tasks like identifying
locations or body parts, a direct approach without CoT tends to be more effective. Overall, the
enhanced performance of CoT indicates that its
architecture is well-suited to sequential reasoning,
akin to a radiologist’s thought process, thus leading
to more accurate descriptions of CT findings.
Category
Location
Body Part
Type

GPT-4V
CoT
w/o CoT
17.1%
13.0%
46.4%
53.5%
44.6%
16.5%

Gemini Pro Vision
CoT
w/o CoT
14.02%
17.27%
53.51%
58.64%
43.17%
28.78%

Table 3: Correct Classification Percentages for GPT-4V
and Gemini Pro Version with Bounding Boxes.

Among the non-fine-tuned models, GPT-4V and
Gemini Pro Vision excel in medical imaging tasks,
which is likely attributed to their extensive pretraining on diverse datasets. Specifically, in tasks
requiring identification within bounding boxs, GPT4V scores 46.4% in type recognition and 53.5% in
body part identification. Gemini Pro Vision follows
closely with scores of 44.6% and 43.17%, respectively. Despite outperforming other models, both

type
GPT-4V
part
(No-CoT) body
location

bbox

w/o bbox

type
body part
location
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
type
type
GPT-4V body part
body part
location
location
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
type
type
Gemini Pro Vision body part
body part
(No-CoT) location
location
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
type
type
Gemini Pro Vision body part
body part
location
location
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
type
type
LLaVA-Med body part
body part
location
location
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
type
type
RadFM body part
body part
location
location
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
type
type
RadFM (FT) body part
body part
location
location
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
Figure 4: Comparison of results of abnormality characterization by GPT-4V, Gemini Pro Vision, LLaVA-Med,
RadFM, and RadFM (FT) with bounding boxes (bbox) vs. without bounding boxes (w/o bbox). Color mapping =
{orange: ‘Incorrect’, beige: ‘Partially Correct’, teal: ‘Correct’, white: ‘Not Applicable’}. x-axis denotes scores
{ x ∈ R | 0 < x < 1 }, N = 500 samples.

GPT-4V and Gemini Pro Vision have room for improvement in lesion location accuracy, with scores
of 17.1% and 14% respectively. In contrast, models
like LLaVA-Med and RadFM demonstrate significantly weaker performance, particularly in tasks
without spatial cues. For example, The LLaVAMed bbox model achieves accuracies of 1.81% for
identifying lesion locations and types, and 33.73%
for recognizing body parts. These models struggle
to generalize from their training data, highlighting significant challenges in adapting AI to realworld medical tasks. The suboptimal performance
of models stems from the fact that these models
have not been specifically fine-tuned for lesion detection on Chest CT scans (Li et al., 2024).
To prove this, we fine-tuned the RadFM model
by using domain-specific, non-overlapping data.
RadFM (FT) exhibited improvement across all
three categories compared to the standard RadFM.
Especially when bounding boxes were employed,
the location accuracy rose from 3.41% to 12.8%,
body part accuracy increased from 29.12% to 53%,
and type accuracy improved from 9.24% to 30%.
This indicated that fine-tuning and targeted optimizations with data effectively address specific
weaknesses in model performance, suggesting a
pathway for further enhancing the reliability of

multi-modal LLMs for medical imaging.

6

Conclusion

In summary, we proposed the novel “GPTRadScore” framework for automatically evaluating AIgenerated descriptions of findings prospectively
identified in CT exams. These descriptions were
intended to be pre-filled into the radiology reports’ findings section. Four multi-modal LLMs
were tested for the ability to generate a description of a CT-based finding when fed with an input CT slice. GPT-4V and Gemini Pro Vision
notably outperformed other recent multi modal
LLMs in accurately predicting lesion characteristics. Bounding boxes outlining the lesions in the
CT slices provided strong visual cues and consistently helped these multi-modal LLMs to identify
the body part and location correctly. GPTRadScore
auto-evaluation results demonstrated a strong correlation with clinician assessments as measured
by Pearson’s correlation coefficient. Our evaluation highlighted specific weaknesses in various
multi-modal LLMs, primarily due to the dataset
limitations that these models were trained on. By
fine-tuning RadFM on domain-specific data, significant enhancements substantially improve the
utility of multi-modal LLMs in radiology.

7

Limitions

One limitation of our study is the lack of investigation into prompt engineering. We utilized the
prompts recommended by the model developers,
assuming these would optimize performance. However, more meticulously crafted prompts could potentially yield better outcomes. This reliance on
predefined prompts mirrors the early days of imagebased pattern recognition, suggesting that just as
image recognition evolved to require less manual
intervention, prompt engineering may also become
more automated and effective in the future. To address this, future research could explore automated
prompt generation techniques or machine learning
algorithms that optimize prompt selection based on
task specifics and data context.
Another limitation involves the cost and practicality of implementing such advanced AI models
in clinical settings. As LLMs continue to evolve,
the associated deployment costs are expected to
decrease, making the technology more accessible
and feasible for wider implementation. Our model
shows a key direction that can be used in the future
to further this progress. To mitigate high costs and
enhance practicality, solutions such as developing
computationally efficient models, utilizing cloudbased deployments, forming partnerships with technology providers, and initiating pilot projects could
be pursued. These strategies can demonstrate the
benefits of AI technologies and support broader
adoption, aligning with the ongoing advancements
and cost reductions in the field of LLMs.

8

Ethical Statement

The data used in this study are fully anonymized,
and comply with the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (HIPAA). Use of the data
was approved by the Institutional Review Board
(IRB), and the requirement for informed consent
was waived. For the generation task, publicly available images from DeepLesion were used. For the
evaluation task, we accessed GPT-4, an online large
language model, via Microsoft Azure services to
guarantee secure and privacy-compliant data handling.

References
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,

Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Rajesh Bhayana. 2024. Chatbots and large language models in radiology: A practical primer
for clinical and research applications. Radiology,
310(1):e232756.
Zhihong Chen, Yaling Shen, Yan Song, and Xiang Wan.
2021. Cross-modal memory networks for radiology
report generation. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference
on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long
Papers), pages 5904–5914, Online. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Zhihong Chen, Yan Song, Tsung-Hui Chang, and Xiang Wan. 2020. Generating radiology reports via
memory-driven transformer. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1439–1449,
Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
N. A. Fawzy, M. J. Tahir, A. Saeed, M. J. Ghosheh,
T. Alsheikh, A. Ahmed, and Z. Lee, K. Y. Yousaf.
2023. Incidence and factors associated with burnout
in radiologists: A systematic review. European journal of radiology open, 11:100530.
Akimichi Ichinose, Taro Hatsutani, Keigo Nakamura,
Yoshiro Kitamura, Satoshi Iizuka, Edgar Simo-Serra,
Shoji Kido, and Noriyuki Tomiyama. 2023. Visual
grounding of whole radiology reports for 3d ct images. In Medical Image Computing and Computer
Assisted Intervention – MICCAI 2023, pages 611–
621, Cham. Springer Nature Switzerland.
Jeremy Irvin, Pranav Rajpurkar, Michael Ko, Yifan Yu,
Silviana Ciurea-Ilcus, Chris Chute, Henrik Marklund,
Behzad Haghgoo, Robyn Ball, Katie Shpanskaya,
et al. 2019. Chexpert: A large chest radiograph
dataset with uncertainty labels and expert comparison. In Thirty-Third AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence.
Qiao Jin, Fangyuan Chen, Yiliang Zhou, Ziyang Xu,
Justin M Cheung, Robert Chen, Ronald M Summers,
Justin F Rousseau, Peiyun Ni, Marc J Landsman,
et al. 2024. Hidden flaws behind expert-level accuracy of gpt-4 vision in medicine. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.08396.
Qiao Jin, Robert Leaman, and Zhiyong Lu. 2023. Retrieve, summarize, and verify: How will chatgpt impact information seeking from the medical literature?
Journal of the American Society of Nephrology, pages
10–1681.
Seungone Kim, Se June Joo, Doyoung Kim, Joel Jang,
Seonghyeon Ye, Jamin Shin, and Minjoon Seo. 2023.
The cot collection: Improving zero-shot and few-shot
learning of language models via chain-of-thought
fine-tuning. In The 2023 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing.

Chunyuan Li, Cliff Wong, Sheng Zhang, Naoto
Usuyama, Haotian Liu, Jianwei Yang, Tristan Naumann, Hoifung Poon, and Jianfeng Gao. 2024.
LLaVA-Med: Training a large language-and-vision
assistant for biomedicine in one day. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 36.
Yunyi Liu, Zhanyu Wang, Yingshu Li, Xinyu Liang,
Lingqiao Liu, Lei Wang, and Luping Zhou. 2024.
Mrscore: Evaluating radiology report generation
with llm-based reward system. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.17778.
M. Mahesh, A. J. Ansari, and Jr Mettler, F. A. 2023. Patient exposure from radiologic and nuclear medicine
procedures in the united states and worldwide: 20092018. Radiology, 301.
Harsha Nori, Nicholas King, Scott Mayer McKinney,
Dean Carignan, and Eric Horvitz. 2023. Capabilities of gpt-4 on medical challenge problems. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.13375.
Karl Pearson. 1895. Notes on regression and inheritance
in the case of two parents. Proceedings of the Royal
Society of London, 58:240–242.
Yifan Peng, Xiaosong Wang, Le Lu, Mohammadhadi Bagheri, Ronald Summers, and Zhiyong Lu.
2018. Negbio: a high-performance tool for negation and uncertainty detection in radiology reports.
AMIA Summits on Translational Science Proceedings,
2018:188.
Michael D Ringler, Brian C Goss, and Brian J Bartholmai. 2017. Syntactic and semantic errors in radiology reports associated with speech recognition
software. Health Informatics Journal, 23(1):3–13.
PMID: 26635322.
John J. Smith and Leonard Berlin. 2001. Signing a
colleague’s radiology report. American Journal of
Roentgenology, 176(1):27–30. PMID: 11133532.
Team Gemini, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud,
Yonghui Wu, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu,
Radu Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai,
Anja Hauth, et al. 2023. Gemini: a family of
highly capable multimodal models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.11805.
Shubo Tian, Qiao Jin, Lana Yeganova, Po-Ting Lai,
Qingqing Zhu, Xiuying Chen, Yifan Yang, Qingyu
Chen, Won Kim, Donald C Comeau, et al. 2024. Opportunities and challenges for chatgpt and large language models in biomedicine and health. Briefings
in Bioinformatics, 25(1):bbad493.
Xiaosong Wang, Yifan Peng, Le Lu, Zhiyong Lu, Mohammadhadi Bagheri, and Ronald M Summers. 2017.
Chestx-ray8: Hospital-scale chest x-ray database and
benchmarks on weakly-supervised classification and
localization of common thorax diseases. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, pages 2097–2106.

Zilong Wang, Xufang Luo, Xinyang Jiang, Dongsheng
Li, and Lili Qiu. 2024. Llm-radjudge: Achieving
radiologist-level evaluation for x-ray report generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.00998.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou,
et al. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 35:24824–24837.
Chaoyi Wu, Xiaoman Zhang, Ya Zhang, Yanfeng
Wang, and Weidi Xie. 2023. Towards generalist
foundation model for radiology. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.02463.
Ke Yan, Yifan Peng, Veit Sandfort, Mohammadhadi
Bagheri, Zhiyong Lu, and Ronald M Summers. 2019.
Holistic and comprehensive annotation of clinically
significant findings on diverse ct images: learning
from radiology reports and label ontology. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 8523–8532.
Ke Yan, Xiaosong Wang, Le Lu, and Ronald M Summers. 2018. Deeplesion: automated mining of largescale lesion annotations and universal lesion detection with deep learning. Journal of medical imaging
(Bellingham, Wash.), 5(3):036501.
Juexiao Zhou, Xiuying Chen, and Xin Gao. 2023a. Path
to medical agi: Unify domain-specific medical llms
with the lowest cost. medRxiv, pages 2023–06.
Juexiao Zhou, Xiaonan He, Liyuan Sun, Jiannan Xu,
Xiuying Chen, Yuetan Chu, Longxi Zhou, Xingyu
Liao, Bin Zhang, and Xin Gao. 2023b. Skingpt-4:
an interactive dermatology diagnostic system with
visual large language model.
Qingqing Zhu, Xiuying Chen, Qiao Jin, Benjamin
Hou, Tejas Sudharshan Mathai, Pritam Mukherjee,
Xin Gao, Ronald M Summers, and Zhiyong Lu.
2024. Leveraging professional radiologists’ expertise to enhance llms’ evaluation for radiology reports.
Preprint, arXiv:2401.16578.
Qingqing Zhu, Tejas Sudharshan Mathai, Pritam
Mukherjee, Yifan Peng, Ronald M. Summers, and
Zhiyong Lu. 2023. Utilizing longitudinal chest xrays and reports to pre-fill radiology reports. In MICCAI (5), volume 14224 of Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, pages 189–198. Springer.

9

Appendix

Scenario
w/o CoT, bbox
w/o CoT, w/o bbox
CoT, bbox

CoT, w/o bbox

Evaluation

Prompt
This image is with a bounding box created by a radiologist. Imagine you are a radiologist. Generate a
short radiological impression based on this image.
Imagine you are a radiologist. Generate a short radiological impression based on this image.
Please describe this image in detail, which is with a bounding box created by a radiologist. When
describing this image, please point this: 1. Location: Refers to the specific area where the lesion is
found. For example: the outer edge of the lower left lung; 2. Body Part: Indicates the larger region of
the body where the lesion is located. For example: lung; 3. Types, which include general terms (e.g.,
nodule, mass) and more specific ones (e.g., liver mass); 4. Impression: Summarize the most significant
findings.
Please describe this image in detail. When describing this image, if this image contains a lesion, please
point this: 1. Location: Refers to the specific area where the lesion is found. For example: the outer
edge of the lower left lung; 2. Body Part: Indicates the larger region of the body where the lesion
is located. For example: lung; 3. Types, which include general terms (e.g., nodule, mass) and more
specific ones (e.g., liver mass); 4. Impression: Summarize the most significant findings.
This task involved evaluating the accuracy of a predicted diagnostic interpretation (pred_result) against
a ground truth description (gt_text) and its expanded terms in the context of medical imaging findings.
What’s Checked: Location: If the model finds the problem in the right spot. Body Part: If the model
correctly names which part of the lesion located. Type: If the model accurately describes what kind of
issue it sees (like a nodule or mass). Grading Terms: Correct: The model’s guess is just right. Partially
Correct: The model’s guess is somewhat right but lacks full accuracy or completeness. Incorrect:
The model’s guess doesn’t match the correct answer at all. Not Applicable: The model’s guess omits
relevant information and thus cannot be evaluated

Table 4: Prompts for CT Reporting Generation and Evaluation

Original Sentence

Current Description

Current Size

There is no mediastinal adenopathy however there is a nodule in the
prevascular space measuring BOOKMARK ( 1.8 cm x 1.0 cm ) (
series 3 , image 88 ) .

There is no mediastinal
adenopathy; however, there
is a nodule in the prevascular space.

1.8 cm x 1.0 cm

Smaller retroperitoneal nodules and masses for example iliac artery
OTHER_BMK ( 1.6 cm x 1.4 cm ) , prior exam was OTHER_BMK
( 3.4 cm x 1.8 cm ) and left internal iliac BOOKMARK ( 2.0 cm x
1.2 cm ) , prior exam OTHER_BMK was ( 5.1 cm x 4.4 cm )

Retroperitoneal nodules and
masses, for example left internal iliac.

2.0 cm x 1.2 cm

Table 5: This table illustrates the methodical extraction and analysis of radiological data from medical imaging
reports, specifically focusing on measurements based on the RECIST criteria, referred to as ’bookmarks.’ It details
how the Current Description and Current Size are extracted from the original text using the GPT-4 API.

gt_text: Right posterior hemithorax mass
pred_result: The image is a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest, taken during the arterial phase. It shows a
mass in the right upper lobe of the lung, which appears to have lobulated contours and blurry margins. The mass has a
central caliber and a diameter of around 5 cm. Additionally, there is a solid lesion measuring approximately 3 x 1.5 cm
at the posterior wall of the trachea.
Criterion Evaluation
Explanation
Location
Partially Correct While the prediction does identify a ’right’ sided issue and a finding in the ’posterior’
aspect, it describes the mass being in the ’right upper lobe’, whereas the ground truth
indicates a ’right posterior hemithorax’ location.
Body Part Correct
The prediction correctly identifies the ’lung’ and ’chest’ as the body parts involved,
which is consistent with the ground truth.
Type
Correct
The prediction correctly identifies a ’mass’, which is consistent with the ground truth.
Attributes Partially Correct The prediction describes some attributes of the mass (e.g., ’lobulated contours’, ’blurry
margins’, ’central caliber’, ’diameter of around 5 cm’) but these are not specified in
the ground truth. The prediction is however incorrect in describing the lesion at the
’posterior wall of the trachea’ because this is not mentioned in the ground truth.

Table 6: Evaluation from GPT-4 for LLaVA-Med Generated Findings. The gt_text represents the ground truth, while
pred_result contains the sentences generated by LLaVA-Med.

gt_text: destructive left iliac bone ilium mass with extraosseous mass invading the adjacent iliopsoas and gluteus
minimus muscles
pred_result: The image is a pre-operative computed tomography (CT) scan of the pelvis. It shows multiple osteolytic
sacral and pelvic lesions, as well as a large anterior sacral wall defect and soft tissue invasion. The sacral region appears
to have irregular bone destruction, and there are several smaller lesions scattered throughout the pelvis. The largest
lesion is located in the left sacral bone, with a diameter of 27 mm.
Criterion Evaluation
Explanation
Location
Partially Correct The GT mentions ’left iliac bone ilium’ while the prediction mentions the ’sacral and
pelvic’ region. The iliac bone is a part of the pelvic bone, so this is partially correct.
Body Part Correct
The ground truth mentions ’iliac bone ilium’ and ’iliopsoas and gluteus minimus muscles.’
The prediction mentioned ’sacral and pelvic’ bone which includes the body parts in GT,
so it is correct.
Type
Incorrect
The prediction indicates that there are multiple osteolytic lesions while the GT mentions
a destructive mass. There is a mismatch here. An osteolytic lesion is different from a
destructive mass.
Attributes Incorrect
While the prediction provides a measure of the ’largest lesion’ and mentions ’several
smaller lesions,’ the ground truth does not mention size or number of masses but describes
an ’extraosseous mass invading adjacent muscles,’ which the prediction does not detail.

Table 7: Evaluation from GPT-4 for RadFM Generated Findings. The gt_text represents the ground truth, while
pred_result contains the sentences generated by RadFM.

gt_text: destructive left iliac bone ilium mass with extraosseous mass invading the adjacent iliopsoas and gluteus
minimus muscles
pred_result: The image is a pre-operative computed tomography (CT) scan of the pelvis. It shows multiple osteolytic
sacral and pelvic lesions, as well as a large anterior sacral wall defect and soft tissue invasion. The sacral region appears
to have irregular bone destruction, and there are several smaller lesions scattered throughout the pelvis. The largest
lesion is located in the left sacral bone, with a diameter of 27 mm.
Criterion Evaluation
Explanation
Location
Partially Correct The GT mentions ’left iliac bone ilium’ while the prediction mentions the ’sacral and
pelvic’ region. The iliac bone is a part of the pelvic bone, so this is partially correct.
Body Part Correct
The ground truth mentions ’iliac bone ilium’ and ’iliopsoas and gluteus minimus muscles.’
The prediction mentioned ’sacral and pelvic’ bone which includes the body parts in GT,
so it is correct.
Type
Incorrect
The prediction indicates that there are multiple osteolytic lesions while the GT mentions
a destructive mass. There is a mismatch here. An osteolytic lesion is different from a
destructive mass.
Attributes Incorrect
While the prediction provides a measure of the ’largest lesion’ and mentions ’several
smaller lesions,’ the ground truth does not mention size or number of masses but describes
an ’extraosseous mass invading adjacent muscles,’ which the prediction does not detail.

Table 8: Evaluation from GPT-4 for RadFM Generated Findings. The gt_text represents the ground truth, while
pred_result contains the sentences generated by RadFM.

Model

gt_text

CoT

w/o CoT

Gemini

right renal
hypodensity;
cyst

Location: Right kidney; Body
Part: Kidney; Type: Cyst; Impression: Right renal cyst.

There is a 5 mm non-obstructing calculus in the
mid ureter on the right.

Location: Right lower quadrant
of the abdomen, Body Part: Appendix, Type: Appendicolith,
Impression: ’Hyperdense focus
within the appendix suggestive
of appendicolith

There is a well-circumscribed, low-density lesion in the left kidney, which is highlighted by
the bounding box. This finding is suggestive of
a simple renal cyst. No features suggestive of
malignancy are noted in the visualized portion of
the abdomen. Further evaluation with ultrasound
can be done for confirmation and to exclude any
complex features.

Location: Right lower quadrant
of the abdomen; Body Part: Abdomen; Type: Mass; Impression: Right lower quadrant abdominal mass, likely representing an abscess.

There is a 3.8 x 3.3 x 4.1 cm enhancing mass
in the mid right kidney. The mass demonstrates
central low attenuation. There is no evidence of
perinephric extension or lymphadenopathy."

Location: Right upper quadrant of the abdomen, Body Part:
Liver, Type: Lesion, Impression:
Well-circumscribed hypodense
lesion in the right lobe of the
liver.

The axial CT image of the abdomen with contrast demonstrates a well-circumscribed lesion
in the left kidney, as demarcated by the bounding box. The lesion shows homogeneous density
and does not appear to involve the renal hilum or
adjacent structures. There are no signs of local
invasion or distant metastasis. Further evaluation with dedicated renal protocol imaging and
potential urology consultation is recommended
for characterization and management of the renal lesion. No other significant abnormalities are
noted in the visualized portions of the abdomen.

GPT-4V

Gemini

GPT-4V

large necrotic
right hepatic
mass

Table 9: Generated descriptions with and without the CoT by Gemini and GPt-4V models.

